-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-04-14T12:30:41Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/04/14/business/imf-world-economic-outlook/index.html
author: Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: IMF: Global recession worst since the 1930s and the recovery is far from certain - CNN
description : The coronavirus pandemic is plunging the global economy into its deepest slump since the Great Depression of the 1930s and governments and health officials must work together to prevent an even worse outcome. 
keywords : business, IMF: Global recession worst since the 1930s and the recovery is far from certain - CNN
content: That's the stark warning from the International Monetary Fund, which said on Tuesday there was a risk of the recession extending into 2021 if policymakers fail to coordinate a global response to the virus.In its latest outlook for the world economy, the IMF said it expects GDP will contract by 3% in 2020, a far worse recession than the one that followed the global financial crisis of 2008, and a 180-degree reversal of its previous forecast in January when it was expecting growth of 3.3% this year. "The Great Lockdown, as one might call it, is projected to shrink global growth dramatically. A partial recovery is projected for 2021 ... but the level of GDP will remain below the pre-virus trend, with considerable uncertainty about the strength of the rebound," the IMF said. "Much worse growth outcomes are possible and maybe even likely," it added.In the United States, where lawmakers have approved over $2 trillion in stimulus and where the Federal Reserve has unleashed trillions more to keep the financial system from seizing up, the IMF expects the economy to shrink by 5.9% this year. That would be the worst slump since 1946, but a smaller decline in output than some European countries are likely to experience. Growth in China, the world's second-largest economy and the first to be slammed by the coronavirus, will meanwhile plummet to 1.2%. It hasn't seen growth that weak since 1976.The outlook is bleak even in countries where governments and central banks have responded forcefully in an effort to help workers and businesses. The IMF expects Germany's economy, the largest in Europe and heavily exposed to global trade, to contract by 7% in 2020. The Canadian economy is forecast to shrink by 6.2%, while the United Kingdom can expect a decline of 6.5%.Japan, the world's third largest economy, will contract by 5.3% even though it has so far avoided imposing harsh nationwide restrictions on travel, work and public life that have frozen economic activity in other parts of the world. EU countries have committed huge sums of money to supporting companies and households, and limits on budget deficits have been relaxed to allow them to borrow more. But Spain and Italy, which have been hit hard by the virus, are predicted to lose 8% and 9.1% of their economies respectively, underscoring the urgent need for the bloc to find a way of financing a recovery plan.The IMF forecast suggests the world is in the early stages of the most severe economic crisis in nearly a century, and that efforts to contain the pandemic will cost tens of millions of people their jobs and put tens of thousands of companies out of business. Unemployment in the United States will rise to 10.4% this year, according to the IMF, and 9.1% in 2021. The IMF expects the global economy to rebound in 2021, with growth hitting 5.8% if the pandemic fades in the second half of this year. But the group warns that its outlook is highly uncertain, and any number of factors could mean that efforts to contain the coronavirus remain in place for much longer than expected. "The pandemic could prove more persistent than assumed .... Moreover, the effects of the health crisis on economic activity and financial markets could turn out to be stronger and longer lasting, testing the limits of central banks to backstop the financial system and further raising the fiscal burden of the shock," the IMF warns in its report.Consumer confidence may fail to improve, for example. Companies and households may change their behavior, leading to weak demand and further disruption to supply chains. Reduced investment and bankruptcies could leave "scars" that "may run more extensively through the economy," the IMF said.Global response neededThe best way to ease the economic trauma is for governments and public health officials to increase their cooperation, according to the IMF. "Countries urgently need to work together to slow the spread of the virus and to develop a vaccine and therapies to counter the disease. Until such medical interventions become available, no country is safe from the pandemic," the group's report states. The IMF recommends that governments spend more on testing, rehiring retired medical professionals and purchasing equipment such as ventilators and personal protective equipment. Trade restrictions on medical products should be lifted. The group praised developed economies including Australia, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States for their fiscal response to the crisis, while also crediting China, Indonesia and South Africa. But more may need to be done. "Fiscal measures will need to be scaled up if the stoppages to economic activity are persistent, or the pickup in activity as restrictions are lifted is too weak," the IMF said.Governments should also provide relief to workers. In places where paid sick and family leave are not standard, "governments should consider funding them to allow unwell workers or their caregivers to stay home without fear of losing their jobs during the pandemic," the IMF said.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-21T06:40:50Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/21/business/coronavirus-economy-markets/index.html
author: Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: 30 days that brought the world to the brink of a depression - CNN
description : Monday, February 17. The novel coronavirus outbreak is raging in China, but fewer than 1,000 people have been infected outside the country. With the virus out of sight and mostly out of mind, the Dow Jones Industrial Average stands just shy of 30,000 points, driven by the longest US economic expansion in history.
keywords : business, 30 days that brought the world to the brink of a depression - CNN
content: What investors couldn't know is that over the next 30 days, the coronavirus would burst out of quarantine in China, with major outbreaks in South Korea and Italy, then Spain, France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States. It brought business to a sudden stop, sent stock markets into a meltdown and forced central banks to take emergency action on a scale even greater than during the 2008 global financial crisis. A global recession, once unthinkable in 2020, is now a foregone conclusion and some experts warn that the pandemic could drag the world's economy into a depression. More bad news: The coronavirus outbreak may just be getting started.Central banks and governments are now unleashing a tsunami of interest rate cuts, loan guarantees and new spending, tapping emergency powers to reassure investors, cushion the shock to companies and workers and preserve the foundations of a functioning economy for the future. In the United States, the Trump administration is asking Congress to approve a rescue bill that would inject $1 trillion into the economy to prevent mass layoffs as huge swaths of the world's biggest economy shut down and airlines, hotels and restaurants run out of cash. In an extraordinary move, the UK government on Friday said it would pay 80% of the wages of anyone at risk of losing their job because of the pandemic. Yet the rescue efforts may already be too late. Goldman Sachs estimates that 2.25 million Americans filed for unemployment benefits this week — that would be the biggest number on record. Meanwhile, the number of coronavirus cases marches higher. The global number of infections has topped 270,000, and more than 11,000 people have been killed worldwide. Spain, Italy, France and the United Kingdom are under partial or complete lockdowns. California, which boasts the world's fifth largest economy, has directed 40 million people to stay at home. "The coronavirus has created unprecedented financial and societal disruption," David Kostin, chief US equity strategist at Goldman Sachs, said this week. Most exposed to the fallout are businesses and workers in transport, the energy industry and hospitality as international aviation shuts down, oil consumption collapses and pubs, bars and restaurants are ordered to close. "In the worst case, entire industries could be destroyed," Moody's Investor Services said in a note on Friday.While the pandemic is still unfolding, economists are already thinking about how it will change the world. Many expect significant shifts in how supply chains are constructed and how global trade is conducted. The merits of capitalism, democratic systems of government and globalization are likely to come under intense scrutiny. A warning from AppleFebruary 17 was a holiday in the United States and stock markets were closed. But on that Monday, Apple sounded the alarm. It warned that it wouldn't meet its revenue projections for the first three months of the year because the coronavirus had reduced iPhone manufacturing capacity in China, and with Chinese stores closed or operating reduced hours, demand for the company's products was also dropping. When US markets reopened on February 18, investors pushed the company's stock down by 2.6%.The initial hit to its stock may have been modest, but Apple was the first major US company to warn that the coronavirus was affecting its business in a big way. What's more, Apple laid out exactly why the epidemic was such a big threat: the reaction to the outbreak was hammering both supply and demand. That dual threat is exactly why pandemics can be much more damaging than many other "black swan" events. People are more likely to stay home during an outbreak to avoid getting sick. Doing so limits demand for consumer goods and services, as well as energy. Decisions by companies and governments to close shops and idle factories, meanwhile, curtail production. "A severe pandemic would resemble a global war in its sudden, profound, and widespread impact," the World Bank said in a report from 2013.In the month following Apple's (AAPL) warning, thousands more companies came under huge pressure. Carmakers, which rely on global supply chains and timely deliveries to keep their plants open, shuttered factories in Europe and then the United States. Airlines canceled international flights to China, and then just about everywhere else. CAPA Centre for Aviation, a consultancy, says most carriers will be bankrupt by the end of May unless governments bail them out. Eswar Prasad, a professor of trade policy at Cornell University, said the nature of the pandemic will encourage companies to begin reviewing the costs of global economic integration. "The free flow of goods, capital, and people has generated enormous benefits but also created channels for rapid worldwide contagion from financial shocks, geopolitical conflicts, and epidemics," he said. The debate over how companies and governments should respond is already underway, with some observers arguing that countries must make more essential products including medical supplies at home in order to prevent shortages, an impulse that could accelerate a rollback of globalization exemplified by the trade war between the United States and China. But William Reinsch, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said that the pandemic can't undo the technological advances that have dramatically boosted global trade over the past 50 years. "The larger question is whether those tools will be used in the same way and to the same degree as they have been," he said. One change that Reinsch sees coming is how executives think about the supplies they need. "The coronavirus crisis has taught them that supply chains are a lot more fragile than they thought, that supplies can be suddenly interrupted for unexpected reasons, and that a prudent manager will not only have a Plan B, but a Plan C and Plan D as well," he said.Policymakers respond as markets crashStarting on February 18, US stocks entered a stunning freefall that wiped away roughly a third of their value and ended the longest bull market in history. The Dow has fallen nearly 35% since Apple issued its coronavirus warning, posting shock declines on March 9 (-7.8%), March 12 (-10%) and March 16 (-12.9%). The index closed at 19,174 points on Friday.Markets in Europe and Asia have also plunged. Europe's Stoxx 600 has lost roughly a third of its value since February 18, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index has dropped 18% over the same time period. According to Bank of America, $27 trillion has been wiped off global stocks since the end of January. Companies exposed to fallout from the pandemic have seen their stocks decimated. Shares in United Airlines (UAL) are down roughly 70% so far this year, while French carmaker Renault (RNLSY) has plummeted 62%. Marriott International's (MAR) stock is down 50% over the same period. Share prices may come under even more pressure. According to Neil Shearing, the chief economist at Capital Economics, the ability of central banks to put a floor under stock markets is limited. "History suggests that equity markets are only likely to bottom out when it becomes clear that the flow of new cases of the virus has peaked. Until this happens, we should expect stock markets to remain under pressure," he said.Central banks have responded to the mounting economic devastation by slashing interest rates and using other tools in their arsenal to support growth and prevent financial markets from seizing up. The US Federal Reserve cut interest rates at emergency meetings on March 3 and March 15, reducing them to a record low near zero while committing $750 billion to buy government bonds and other securities. The Bank of England has also cut interest rates twice, on March 11 and March 19. In Japan and Europe, where interest rates have been in negative territory for years, central banks have joined the Fed in announcing hundreds of billions of dollars worth of asset purchases.Governments have promised to inject huge sums into the economy. Morgan Stanley says spending commitments from the United States, Europe, Japan, the United Kingdom and China add up to at least $1.7 trillion. And a much larger sum has been promised in the form of credit guarantees."While the initial response from developed economies was slow, over the last few days — as economic and financial market disruptions persist — we have started to see strong commitments from policy makers, indicating a sizable fiscal expansion plan is in the offing," Morgan Stanley chief economist Chetan Ahya told clients on Thursday.What happens nextGoldman Sachs warned Friday that US GDP could plummet at an annual rate of 24% during the second quarter, with unemployment peaking around 9% later this year. The bank said that reports suggest a "sudden surge in layoffs and a collapse in spending, both historic in size and speed."The economic collapse predicted by Goldman would be significantly worse than the sharpest contraction during the Great Recession, when GDP dropped by a rate of 8.4% in the fourth quarter of 2008. It would also surpass the previous post-World-War-II record of 10% set in early 1958.The picture is much the same in other countries where businesses are shutting down because of the coronavirus. According to Deutsche Bank, if the pandemic affects the United Kingdom for longer than expected, its economy could shrink 6% this year as the country plunges into the worst recession in a century.Kevin Hassett, an economist and former CNN contributor who is returning to the Trump administration to help the coronavirus response, said this week that the pandemic could spark a repeat of the Great Depression that began in 1929 and lasted for years."We're going to have to either have a Great Depression, or figure out a way to send people back to work even though that's risky," he said. "Because at some point, we can't not have an economy, right?"— Julia Horowitz and Matt Egan contributed reporting. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-19T16:37:31Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/19/business/coronavirus-cash-handouts/index.html
author: Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: Cash handouts are coming as governments try to avert depression  - CNN
description : The damage the coronavirus pandemic is inflicting on the global economy is so severe that governments are poised to start handing out cash directly to citizens, an emergency measure to help cover food, rent and utility payments during a period of extreme duress.
keywords : business, Cash handouts are coming as governments try to avert depression  - CNN
content: In the United States, the Trump administration could issue $1,000 checks to all Americans. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Wednesday that a temporary rollout of universal basic income is under consideration. And Japan's government is reportedly weighing handouts of at least 12,000 yen ($109) per person. Cutting checks is an imperfect tool to fight a recession. Economists describe the measure as more carpet bombing than precision strike. But as cities around the world are locked down, and with unemployment already starting to rise, many say it's necessary to temper the shock and grease the wheels of an eventual recovery. Former White House economist Kevin Hassett has warned that the coronavirus could spark another Great Depression."Large numbers of people are already being laid off this week," said Michael Pearce, senior US economist at Capital Economics, a research firm. "Those people will need immediate income assistance."US leads the wayGovernments have promised huge increases in spending and credit guarantees to contain the economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic as cities and towns grind to a halt. Morgan Stanley told clients on Thursday that it believes fiscal stimulus worth $1.7 trillion will be solidified soon.Together with massive stimulus from central banks, which continue to slash interest rates and pour trillions into the financial system, this will be substantial. But it's still not enough to offset the seismic blow to the global economy expected in the first half of 2020.Some countries and cities have already said they'll give out cash as part of their coronavirus response. Hong Kong said in late February that it would give 10,000 Hong Kong dollars ($1,288) to all permanent residents who are at least 18 years old. Australia said last week that it would pay 750 Australian dollars ($434) to pensioners and others who receive income assistance.But support for cash handouts in the United States could trigger a fresh wave of direct transfers from governments, which will need to do more to ease the pain as a global recession takes hold.The idea has caught on quickly among US policymakers. Republican Senator Mitt Romney unveiled a proposal for $1,000 handouts on Monday, and by Tuesday, President Donald Trump was on board with issuing direct deposits in just two weeks' time."We don't want people losing their jobs or not having money to live, when they were doing very well just four weeks ago," he said at a press conference. "So we're going big, and that's the way it'll be."Cash transfers to Americans, part of a broader $1 trillion stimulus plan under discussion, would need to be approved by Congress, and the first wave could cost $250 billion. But there appears to be bipartisan support given the gravity of the situation. One Treasury Department memo suggests that a combined $500 billion in checks could be delivered."It's a good starting place," Pearce said.The United States has taken similar action during previous times of crisis. President George W. Bush mailed out checks during the recessions of 2001 and 2008. Roughly 130 million households received tax rebates in the latter effort. Single Americans received up to $600 and couples up to $1,200, at a cost of about $100 billion. The rebate phased out at higher income levels.Europe could be nextIn Europe, where countries are enacting strict shutdowns to try to bring the rapidly escalating caseload under control, such cash transfers would be unprecedented, according to Carsten Brzeski, chief eurozone economist at the Dutch bank ING. But it looks like the logical next step for countries like Germany, France and Spain, which have pledged to do "whatever it takes" to support businesses and individuals, he said. This time around, generous social safety nets are unlikely to be adequate shock absorbers."It helps contain the damage," said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank. "You are able to pay your employees for another month if you get support."Economists agree that cutting checks to the majority of a country's population is a blunt method of distributing relief. Some who do not need assistance may still receive it, and in a world where people are told not to leave their homes, and movie theaters, restaurants and bars remain shut, it could be difficult to pump that money back into the real economy.Still, checks could play an important part in bridging the gap for those most in need, and for getting the world back on its feet once the immediate crisis passes, whenever that may be."Once people see these numbers stabilizing it will bring some relief," Brzeski said. "Then it would make the recovery that comes after stronger."No time to be 'squeamish'Large-scale cash transfers don't come without risks.One concern is inflation; if everyone gets $1,000 in their pocket, will landlords decide to raise rents? Could grocers raise prices on food? Though inflation was persistently low before the crisis in many large economies, the pandemic is a curveball. The outbreak has hit both supply and demand as factories close down and people hunker down inside."When crisis happens, the first thing that goes up is prices," said Ugo Gentilini, senior economist with the social protection and jobs global practice at the World Bank. "It's possible again."Funding cash payouts will also be hugely expensive. Coupled with the vast sums promised via more traditional fiscal stimulus measures, they will cause national debt levels to rise astronomically.Global debt levels were already sky high. Borrowings from households, governments and companies grew to $253 trillion during the third quarter of last year, according to the Institute of International Finance. That put the global debt-to-GDP ratio at over 322%, the highest level on record.But with interest rates at historic lows, borrowing is cheap. And many say now is not the time to worry about debt loads."The world is de facto at war," French economist Olivier Blanchard, former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, said on Twitter this week. "Let's not be squeamish."
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-17T18:40:39Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/17/business/coronavirus-economic-response-europe-france/index.html
author: Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: European countries are writing blank checks to save their economies from coronavirus - CNN
description : European governments are writing blank checks to protect businesses and workers from the deep recession into which the global economy is sinking rapidly because of the coronavirus pandemic. 
keywords : business, European countries are writing blank checks to save their economies from coronavirus - CNN
content: France has so far taken the boldest approach, promising that no company will be allowed to fail as a consequence of the disease that has prompted businesses large and small to suspend operations. The government will guarantee hundreds of billions worth of loans, delay tax payments and suspend rent and utility bills for smaller firms. And the French state is ready to go further, nationalizing industries if necessary. "No French company, whatever its size, will be exposed to the risk of collapse," President Emmanuel Macron said in televised national address on Monday.The ironclad commitment to business, part of a response that Macron compared to being "at war," is the latest in a series of dramatic plans outlined by European governments as they race to confront an outbreak that is killing thousands of people and slamming global giants such as Renault (RNLSY) and Lufthansa (DLAKY), as well as shops, bars and restaurants. Germany is mobilizing at least €500 billion ($550 billion) in loan guarantees and has pledged to provide unlimited liquidity to companies affected by the pandemic, part of a raft of measures that finance minister Olaf Scholz described last week as a "bazooka." The country will also make it easier for companies to access  loans made by the state development bank and delay tax payments for struggling businesses."Due to the high degree of uncertainty in the current situation, the government has very deliberately decided to not set any limits on the volume of these measures," the German government said. "If there are any signs of a serious disruption to the economy, the German government ... will use all resources available to counter this forcefully."On Tuesday, Spain's prime minister unveiled a €200 billion ($220 billion) rescue package and said the government would provide all capital necessary to prevent companies from going bankrupt.The United Kingdom also joined the fight on Tuesday after being criticized over its delayed response to the crisis, having suggested only on Monday that people avoid gathering in large groups. UK finance minister Rishi Sunak announced that the government will back an initial £330 billion ($400 billion) in loans for companies. Mortgage providers have agreed to delay payments for three months for people affected by the coronavirus, he said."We have never faced an economic fight like this one, but we are well prepared," said Sunak. "We will do whatever it takes."Taken together, the commitments amount to more than $1.5 trillion  and they could go much higher. Economists say that decisive action to support businesses  now, coupled with measures to ensure that workers won't face financial ruin if they are laid off, could dramatically limit the trauma caused by restrictions on travel and public life, and help economies bounce back quickly once the crisis is over. The measures will be needed quickly. Entire manufacturing sectors are coming to a stop in Europe, a trend underscored by an announcement from Germany's Volkswagen (VLKAF) on Tuesday that it's preparing to close most of its manufacturing plants on the continent. That came one day after Fiat Chrysler (FCAU), Peugeot owner PSA Group (PUGOY) and Renault announced the closure of 35 manufacturing facilities in total across Europe.Economists say the world is plunging into recession, which is defined by two consecutive quarters of negative growth. But analysts at Dutch bank ING said Monday that the "drastic" measures taken by Macron could limit the economic contraction in France to 1% this year."We believe that these measures will help the French economy to rebound more quickly after the deep recession caused by Covid-19 and reach the third quarter with a limited number of large bankruptcies and hence an unemployment rate far below what a recession of that magnitude could have caused," they said in a research note. National governments are finding support from the European Union for their all-in approach. Margrethe Vestager, a top official at the European Commission, said in a statement Tuesday that she was pushing for a relaxation of antitrust rules that would allow struggling companies to receive state grants up to €500,000 ($550,000) and loans with subsidized interest rates.One  laggard is the United States, which has yet to announce  major stimulus measures despite having nearly 5,000 coronavirus cases. The Trump administration is proposing a rescue plan that will cost an estimated $850 billion, but there's no guarantee it will be approved by Congress.House lawmakers have, meanwhile, approved a bill that would improve the social safety net for workers affected by coronavirus, but the paid sick and medical leave provisions would fall well short of what's in place in Europe even if the proposal overcomes resistance from Senate Republicans. US airlines are running out of cash quickly and will likely need a bailout if they are to survive the crisis, but direct financial assistance for struggling companies could prove controversial in a country that bailed out its banks and carmakers are recently as the global financial crisis."We have a lot more work to do," US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Tuesday, "and we have to do it quickly."Nadine Schmidt and Barbara Wojazer contributed reporting.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-17T12:41:01Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/17/business/volkswagen-plants-europe-coronavirus/index.html
author: Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Volkswagen is closing plants across Europe - CNN
description : Volkswagen is preparing to suspend production across Europe as the continent struggles to contain the coronavirus pandemic.
keywords : business, Volkswagen is closing plants across Europe - CNN
content: The German carmaking giant said Tuesday that production at its plants in Spain, Setubal in Portugal and Bratislava in Slovakia will be halted before the end of the week. Factories in Italy that make Lamborghini super cars and Ducati motorcycles will also be idled. Most of the group's other German and European plants are preparing to suspend production, probably for two weeks, Volkswagen (VLKAF) CEO Herbert Diess told reporters on Tuesday."Given the present significant deterioration in the sales situation and the heightened uncertainty regarding parts supplies to our plants, production is to be suspended in the near future at factories operated by group brands," said Diess.The company said factories producing Volkswagen branded cars would shut down starting late on Thursday. That includes the company's huge plant at Wolfsburg, one of the biggest manufacturing sites in the world.Volkswagen, which also owns brands including Skoda, Audi, Porsche and Bugatti, delivered 10.8 million vehicles to customers in 2019, more than any other carmaker. Roughly 44% of the group's 668,000 employees live in Germany, where the company is a leading force in the country's huge manufacturing sector.It joins other automakers in Europe in closing plants as a result of the coronavirus. Fiat Chrysler (FCAU), Peugeot owner PSA Group (PUGOY) and Renault (RNLSY) on Monday announced the closure of 35 manufacturing facilities in total across Europe as regional and national authorities imposed severe restrictions on travel and public life. Together, the three companies sold roughly 12 million cars last year.Toyota (TM), the world's second biggest carmaker after Volkswagen, said Tuesday it was halting operations at two plants in France and Portugal. BMW (BMWYY) said Wednesday that it was preparing to shut plants in Rosslyn, South Africa and Europe until April 19, while Daimler (DMLRY) said it would suspend most production of Mercedes vehicles in Europe for two weeks initially. 14 million European jobs at stakeThe closure of car plants in Europe illustrates how the impact on the auto industry from coronavirus is going global. The pandemic has already resulted in extended factory closures and a steep drop in vehicle sales in China. The auto sector is at the heart of Europe's manufacturing industry, and provides direct and indirect employment to nearly 14 million people, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers Association.On Tuesday, Volkswagen said that most of its plants in China were back online, with only two still closed after the country imposed harsh restrictions on travel and business activity earlier this year to combat the initial outbreak of the virus.Yet the outlook for Volkswagen remains highly uncertain. Volkswagen chief financial officer Frank Witter said Tuesday that it was uncertain "how severely or for how long" the coronavirus would affect the company, making it "almost impossible to make a reliable forecast."The plant closures will pile pain on the German economy, which like the rest of Europe is heading for recession.The German economy did not grow in the final three months of 2019, and the outbreak of coronavirus has dashed hopes of a rebound at the start of this year. On Tuesday, the release of the Germany's ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment for March showed the largest drop since the survey was started in December 1991. "Things are likely to get much worse in [the second quarter], when we expect eurozone economies to contract much more quickly than even in the depths of the global financial crisis," said Jack Allen-Reynolds, senior Europe economist at Capital Economics.A recession rolls onThe plant closures, snarled supply chains and weaker consumer confidence that accompany the coronavirus pandemic will push the auto industry even deeper into recession this year.The number of vehicles sold across major global markets fell by about 4% to 90.3 million in 2019, according to analysts at LMC Automotive. That's down from a peak of 95.2 million in 2017.The sales decline is making it even tougher for the industry to generate the funds needed to meet the huge challenge of ditching the internal combustion engine and tackling the climate crisis.The initial coronavirus outbreak had already forced many global automakers to shutter factories in China, the world's largest market for vehicles. Data published last week showed that sales in the country dropped nearly 80% in February compared to the previous year.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-18T05:08:21Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/18/business/uaw-gm-ford-fca-coronavirus/index.html
author: Vanessa Yurkevich and Peter Valdes-Dapena, CNN Business
headline: GM, Ford and Fiat Chrysler will continue US production with new safety measures - CNN
description : The United Auto Workers has agreed with Ford, General Motors and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles to keep their US factories open for now. The union had been asking for a two-week shutdown of the factories if convincing measures weren't taken to make them safe during the coronavirus outbreak.
keywords : business, GM, Ford and Fiat Chrysler will continue US production with new safety measures - CNN
content: Ford (F), General Motors (GM) and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles agreed Tuesday night to "rotating partial shutdowns" of their factories, according to United Auto Workers. The union added that the automakers will also deep clean their facilities and equipment when workers swap shifts, and extend the length of time between shifts. The announcement is a compromise between the union and the automakers. The UAW earlier called on the companies to shut down their US factories entirely for two weeks as a way to "safeguard our members, our families and our communities."The automakers had, in turn, asked for 48 hours to consider other plans, according to a letter sent to union members on Tuesday. The automakers and the UAW last weekend said they created a joint task force to come up with practices to keep factories safe from the coronavirus. "The health and safety of our workforce is our top priority. We're working closely with the UAW and are aiming to announce details in the next 24 hours," Ford spokeswoman Kelli Felker said of the new plans.FCA agreed, in addition to measures it has already undertaken, to make changes to work schedules and processes."These changes, which include rotating shifts to allow for greater separation of employees and further enhancing our new sanitation protocols, are focused on providing a safe environment and peace of mind to our employees at their place of work," the company said in a statement. GM reported that, in addition to the plans mentioned in the UAW announcement, it is also stopping overtime at its facilities in order to allow more time for cleaning.Before the agreement was announced, the union had threatened to take action on its own."These companies will be put on notice that the UAW will use any and all measures to protect our brothers and sisters who are working in their facilities," wrote UAW President Rory Gamble in the letter.The coronavirus crisis is causing issues globally across the auto industry. Auto plants in China have had to shut down for weeks after the virus first arose there. This week, automakers including Volkswagen Group, Fiat Chrysler and PSA, which makes Peugeot, Citroen and Opel cars, announced they were shutting down factories across Europe in the face of collapsing demand and troubles with parts supplies.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-17T20:21:43Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/17/business/uaw-requests-gm-ford-plant-shutdown/index.html
author: Vanessa Yurkevich and Peter Valdes-Dapena, CNN
headline: UAW presses GM, Ford and Fiat Chrysler to temporarily shut down US factories - CNN
description : The United Auto Workers union is calling on Ford, General Motors and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles to shut down their US factories for two weeks amid the coronavirus outbreak. 
keywords : business, UAW presses GM, Ford and Fiat Chrysler to temporarily shut down US factories - CNN
content: In a letter sent to union members, UAW President Rory Gamble said the union has requested the shutdown "to safeguard our members, our families and our communities."The automakers asked for 48 hours to consider other plans, according to the letter. The automakers and the UAW had announced last weekend that they were creating a joint task force to come up with practices to keep factories safe from the coronavirus. "The members of the Task Force have been working diligently since Sunday and that work continues," GM (GM) spokesman Jim Cain said."FCA has already implemented extensive protocols to ensure the health and welfare of our workforce," Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) spokeswoman Jodi Tinson said in an email. "We are continuing to carefully monitor the situation and are making improvements as needed."Ford (F) is also working closely with the UAW on the matter and "will have more to say at a later time," spokeswoman Kelli Felker said.All three automakers have said they have implemented more stringent cleaning regimens, put restrictions on access to the plant and taken other steps to keep workplaces safe for employees. The deadline set by the UAW expires 6 p.m. this evening, according to Gamble's letter."We will be evaluating what the companies submit today and there will be a meeting this evening at 6 p.m., where the Task Force will review plans for the safety and health of all members, their families and our communities," Gamble wrote in the letterIf the union is not satisfied with the automakers' proposed steps, the union threatened to take action on its own."These companies will be put on notice that the UAW will use any and all measures to protect our brothers and sisters who are working in their facilities," Gamble wrote. The coronavirus crisis is causing issues globally across the auto industry. Auto plants in China have had to shut down for weeks after the virus first arose there. This week, automakers including Volkswagen Group, Fiat Chrysler and PSA, which makes Peugeot, Citroen and Opel cars, announced they were shutting down factories across Europe in the face of collapsing demand and troubles with parts supplies.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-19T15:02:12Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/19/business/coronavirus-economy-packages-left-out-intl/index.html
author: Rob Picheta, CNN
headline: Governments are pumping trillions into their economies. But some people could still be left out - CNN
description : As the coronavirus pandemic freezes populations in lockdown and pushes the world towards recession, a number of major governments have unveiled unprecedented stimulus packages.
keywords : business, Governments are pumping trillions into their economies. But some people could still be left out - CNN
content: Most of the emergency measures boast numbers rarely seen in peacetime. In the United States, the price tag for the government's coronavirus response package is at $1 trillion-plus, a source estimated on Tuesday. In the UK, a £330 billion ($400 billion) plan was announced, and various badly hit countries in Europe have also unveiled 12-figure packages this week.But even with such dramatic funds being pumped into the world's leading economies, experts warn that some groups could be left behind. And there are concerns the packages could further widen economic inequality. United StatesPresident Donald Trump on Wednesday signed into law a coronavirus relief package. Its speedy passage in the House and Senate represented a rare showing of partisan unity, although Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and other Senate Republicans were critical of the legislation.But "there are clearly people that are left out" from many of the bill's contents, Elise Gould, a senior economist at the Washington DC-based Economic Policy Institute, told CNN. "The measure for paid sick days actually have some gaping holes in it -- one is that they don't apply to large employers." Certain measures were scaled back when the bill was considered in the Republican-controlled Senate, including sick leave provisions. The bill provides many workers with two weeks of paid sick leave if they are tested or treated for coronavirus, or have been diagnosed with it. Also eligible are those who have been told by a doctor or government official to stay home because of exposure or symptoms.Under the revised bill, however, those payments are capped at $511 a day, roughly what someone making $133,000 earns annually. The original measure called for workers to receive their full pay but limited federal reimbursement to employers to that amount.Workers with family members affected by coronavirus and those whose children's schools have closed will still receive up to two-thirds of their pay, though that benefit is limited to $200 a day.The new legislation isn't the only economic package expected. The White House also appears to favor a plan to pay Americans checks directly, an idea that has some bipartisan support. The total cost of the first wave of checks would be $250 billion, a source familiar with the matter told CNN."I don't think you can go too big here," Gould said of the plan, suggesting the first individual payments should be as high as $2,000. "I care about the effect on the economy, but I also care that people are getting evicted from their apartments," Gould told CNN, urging that the approach -- if adopted -- is done on a monthly basis.As with other major economies, service workers in the US are among the most economically vulnerable as bars and restaurants shutter.The American Hotel & Lodging Association on Wednesday urged government assistance for hotels, saying that industry is facing a crisis "already more severe than anything we've seen before." United KingdomEven before the pandemic paralyzed Europe, signs were emerging that Boris Johnson's government was moving away from the decade of austerity and tightened public spending that his Conservative Party has become known for.But the crisis has accelerated that approach, with Johnson announcing a £330 billion ($386 billion) coronavirus package to help businesses stay afloat.Johnson told Britons he was acting as though he was in charge of a "wartime government," announcing a raft of government-backed grants, loans and tax holidays for companies.But the UK's positive employment figures are driven partly by casual workers, people on zero-hours contracts and freelancers, and it remains to be seen how many will lose work in closed pubs, clubs and restaurants.Johnson didn't go as far as French President Emmanuel Macron in assisting families and renters, and some groups have warned people will slip through the net."As it stands, statutory sick pay will not cover the majority of rent payments, meaning renters who fall ill risk losing the roof over their heads," Kat Wright, of the Acorn union that represents renters, told CNN.A three-month mortgage holiday "misses out huge swathes of the population," she added. The government has indicated further legislation will deal with renters.The number of tenants has risen dramatically in recent years, especially for millennials. There were 4.5 million rented households in the UK in 2017, the latest year for which figures are available, compared with 2.8 million in 2007. "Some landlords will be given a break on their mortgage payments but their tenants will still be forced to pay them rent should they become infected," Wright said. "This means millions of renters risk homelessness in the midst of one of the biggest public health crises of our time."Homelessness rates have also spiraled amid the housing crisis, and campaigners say rough sleepers and those in temporary accommodation could be missed by the measures.On Tuesday, £3.2 million ($3.7 million) was pledged to provide accommodation for rough sleepers who need to self-isolate. But whether the amount can cover Britain's homeless population, and for how long, remains unclear.FranceFrance unveiled arguably the most wide-reaching measures in Europe on Monday, waiving rent and utility bills for smaller firms and guaranteeing €300 billion ($324 billion) worth of loans."No French company, whatever its size, will be exposed to the risk of collapse," he said, also urging businesses not to lay off staff.French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire also signaled a willingness to intervene in individual situations, telling RTL Radio: "If we see, case by case, that some companies have difficulties to pay their charges, they won't have to pay them."The announcements have led politicians in other countries to point to France's example and demand similar measures. "Emmanuel Macron has suspended gas, electricity and rent payments for small businesses in France. Today the British government must announce further measures to protect the high street and workers who depend on it," UK Labour MP David Lammy said.Analysts at Dutch bank ING said Monday that the "drastic" measures taken by Macron could limit the economic contraction in France to 1% this year.SpainSpain's Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said his government will "spare no expense" in its economic response to the crisis, promising to leave no citizen behind.On Tuesday, he unveiled a €200 billion ($216 billion) aid package, which he said amounted to about 20% of the country's GDP and marked "the biggest mobilization of economic resources in Spain's history."Alongside a moratorium on mortgage payments for homeowners, some of the measures targeted those in insecure situations: Self-employed workers were given easier access to unemployment benefits, and €600 billion ($648 billion) was earmarked to provide aid to vulnerable groups.But Spain's unemployment rate sits among the highest in Europe, leaving pockets of society financially vulnerable.And evictions in Spain soared since the outbreak of the 2008 financial crisis, leaving uncertainty looming over many of the country's tenants.It is "particularly important" to keep employment levels steady in Spain, said Angel Talavera, the head of European Economics at Oxford Economics. "The labor market is much more reactive to downturns in economic activity than anywhere else in Europe, which means that a sharp contraction in GDP -- even if it's temporary -- could result in a big loss of employment," Talavera told CNN. Spain went into lockdown on Monday, shutting bars, restaurants and shops. Some 47 million Spanish residents have been banned from leaving home -- with the exception of those going to work, buying food, going to a hospital, or supporting an elderly person or child in their care. "Small businesses, which typically have very small cash buffers, and those in sectors that will be particularly hit by the containment measures -- hotels, restaurants, tourism -- are particularly vulnerable," Talavera said.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-17T17:49:15Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/17/business/boeing-bailout-trump/index.html
author: Chris Isidore, CNN Business
headline: President Trump says he supports a bailout for Boeing - CNN
description : President Donald Trump said Tuesday that Boeing should get financial assistance from the federal government in the face of the coronavirus crisis.
keywords : business, President Trump says he supports a bailout for Boeing - CNN
content: Boeing confirmed that it is seeking $60 billion in federal help, primarily in loan guarantees for the aerospace industry. It did not say how much of that assistance it would seek to access itself.Before it revealed the details of the package it was seeking, Trump had voiced support for helping the company.Trump was already on record supporting help for the nation's airlines, who have asked for about $50 billion in help for passenger airlines, along with $8 billion for cargo airlines and $10 billion for the nation's airports. And when asked if he supported help for Boeing (BA) and aircraft suppliers such as General Electric (GE), he said only that he would help Boeing and did not address help for suppliers.Boeing (BA) has already been struggling with the crisis surrounding the 737 Max, which was grounded a year ago after two fatal crashes that killed 346 people. That crisis has cost the company  nearly $19 billion, according to company filings. Trump said that before the 737 Max crisis he considered Boeing the best company in the world. And he said he believed it was making progress on fixing its problem. "And then all of a sudden this hits," he said.And after beginning his answer as saying the administration was looking at help for Boeing, he moved to definitely endorsing some kind of package, without giving details."Yes, I think we have to protect Boeing. We have to absolutely help Boeing," he said. "Obviously when the airlines aren't doing well then Boeing is not going to be doing well. So we'll be helping Boeing."Boeing thanked the president for his support for assistance."We appreciate the support of the President and the Administration for the 2.5 million jobs and 17,000 suppliers that Boeing relies on to remain the number one US exporter, and we look forward to working with the administration and Congress as they consider legislation and the appropriate policies," said the company.Boeing said that the package it is seeking is primarily loan guarantees."This will be one of the most important ways for airlines, airports, suppliers and manufacturers to bridge to recovery," said the company. "Funds would support the health of the broader aviation industry, because much of any liquidity support to Boeing will be used for payments to suppliers to maintain the health of the supply chain. The long term outlook for the industry is still strong, but until global passenger traffic resumes to normal levels, these measures are needed to manage the pressure on the aviation sector and the economy as a whole." Seeking loan guarantees would be less expensive for the treasury than direct financial assistance. Half the money that the airlines are seeking would be direct grants not to be repaid. Half would be loan guarantees.Beyond the 737 Max crisis, Boeing is encountering a new crisis as airlines around the globe face the risk of bankruptcy because of a plunge in passenger air travel. They might not be able to complete purchases of planes they had ordered. Most major US airlines are also at risk of running out cash, perhaps before the end of June and almost certainly by the end of the year, according to an analysis from Airlines for America, the industry trade group.And even if the airlines get a federal bailout and don't run out of cash, there's a good chance they won't necessarily want to accept deliveries of jets in the near term. Most airlines are already parking the planes they have as they slash their schedules.On Monday Boeing had its credit rating cut by Standard & Poor's  to just two steps above junk-bond status, its lowest credit rating in nearly 40 years."The airlines are in more immediate need for support. Boeing still has a fair amount of cash," said Chris Denicolo, a credit analyst with S&P. "If the airlines are in better shape [due to a bailout], there is less need for Boeing to have direct support."Still, if the airlines don't complete their purchases of planes they had ordered, it will cause a cash crunch for Boeing. Boeing has completed but not delivered 400 of the 737 Maxes. It had expected to begin deliveries of the jets soon after the plane is approved to fly again. That is now in doubt. And because deliveries of those jets have been delayed more than a year, airlines no longer face any financial penalty if they delay delivery."The big question for the airlines and for Boeing is how big does the [airline passenger] traffic decline get, and how long does it last," said Denicolo. He said Boeing can hope the demand rebounds soon after demand for flying resumes."The airlines may not need the plane today but you may need it six months from now," he said.Boeing can still borrow money from major banks. In February it agreed to a $13.8 billion credit line, and in a filing Tuesday confirmed it has drawn down all the money available on that line. The aircraft maker still has $9.6 billion in other credit lines which it agreed to in October, but has not yet used. It likely could get by without a bailout according to Ron Epstein, aerospace analyst with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch."If you look at their balance sheet, they've got a lot of liquidity. And they have other levers to pull," he said. "Where the airlines could go bankrupt in the next three months, that's not going to happen to Boeing."Normally there would be no question of financial support for a company as important as Boeing during an economic crisis. The company has about 160,000 employees, most of them very well paid. All of its planes are assembled in the United States, and its supplier base is mostly American. It is the nation's largest exporter and is crucial to the operation of the nation's air transport system, itself a key to the nation's economy. It is also a major defense contractor.But Boeing is among the least popular companies on Capitol Hill. Former CEO Dennis Muilenburg came under withering criticism about the company's responsibility for the deaths in the 737 Max crashes when he testified before House and Senate committees last year, shortly before he was forced out of his job. But even Robert Clifford, one of the lawyers suing Boeing on behalf of some of the families of crash victims, said he would understand if Boeing got a bailout, even though his clients would be angry about it."The families of the 157 people who died in the Boeing 737 Max crash in Ethiopia would be disappointed if Boeing is rewarded for its outrageous conduct," he said. "That being said, Boeing and the other major corporations in America are important to our economy and workforce, so those factors are important to consider."A bailout for Boeing could face some backlash in Congress that an airline bailout probably would not. So it's not clear if financial support for Boeing will or will not be included in any airline bailout bill.Boeing is not on record asking for a bailout, though it issued a statement Monday suggesting that it could use some help."America's aerospace industry -- which supports over 2.5 million jobs and 17,000 suppliers -- is facing an urgent challenge resulting from the coronavirus pandemic," said Boeing's statement. "We appreciate how the administration and Congress are engaging with all elements of the aviation industry during this difficult time."The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment about Trump's statement Tuesday.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-16T19:00:18Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/16/business/us-airlines-federal-bailout/index.html
author: Gregory Wallace, Phil Mattingly, Kylie Atwood and Chris Isidore, CNN
headline: US airline industry seeks about $50 billion in federal help - CNN
description : US airlines slammed by the coronavirus are requesting an aid package from the federal government that could amount to about $50 billion, according to industry group Airlines for America. 
keywords : business, US airline industry seeks about $50 billion in federal help - CNN
content: The requested aid would be in the form of loans, grants and tax relief. The airlines are looking for up to $25 billion in grants for passenger air carriers and $4 billion in grants to cargo carriers, and the same amounts in loans or loan guarantees, Airlines for America outlined in a briefing document. "US carriers are in need of immediate assistance as the current economic environment is simply not sustainable," the group said in a statement. "This is compounded by the fact that the crisis does not appear to have an end in sight." The US airlines are not the only ones asking for help from their national governments in the face of the sharp decline in travel. Monday the three biggest global airline alliances, oneworld, SkyTeam and Star Alliance, urged governments around the world to "evaluate all possible means" to assist the industry. They represent more than 58 of the world's leading carriers. The US aid package has been discussed with key lawmakers and staff, as on Capitol Hill and the Trump administration, two sources said. The discussions were described as early-stage. But one source noted there is a growing recognition from the federal government that conditions "are getting very bad, very fast." In addition the request to help the airlines, a trade group for the nation's airports is requesting a separate $10 billion bailout, an airport industry source told CNN.The request for help is in line with anticipated airport revenue declines tied to the sharp drop in revenue that comes from airlines slashing their flight schedules. Most of the fees airlines pay to airports are based on the number of flights that  take off and land. The plane manufacturer Boeing on Monday also said it is talking to "government and industry leaders.""We're leveraging all our resources to sustain our operations," said spokesperson Gordon Johndroe. "Meanwhile, ready short term access to public and private liquidity will be one of the most important ways for airlines, airports, suppliers and manufacturers to bridge to recovery, and we appreciate how the Administration and Congress are engaging with all elements of the aviation industry during this difficult time."'We're going to help them'Most of America's major airlines are projected to run out of cash some time between June 30 and the end of the year without help, according to Airlines for America.But the crisis may actually be more pressing than that.If the nation's credit card companies start to withhold payments to the airlines out of fear that there could be bankruptcy filings that would turn them into creditors, the airlines could run out of cash before June 30, according to the trade group.The concept of a bailout for airlines got an endorsement from President Donald Trump at his briefing on the virus on Monday."We're going to back the airlines 100%," said Trump, saying that their financial problems is "not their fault. It's nobody's fault.""We're going to be in a position to help the airlines very much. We've told the airlines we're going to help them. It's very important."Stunning reversalThe need for the bailout is a stunning reversal of position for the industry and a sign of just how quickly the demand for air travel in the nation has ground to a near halt.When airline executives met at the White House with Trump and Vice President Mike Pence on March 4, they did not ask for a bailout. And as recently as Tuesday, executives from most of the nation's airlines told investors at a JPMorgan online investor conference that they were not seeking any kind of government assistance."We are not going to count on any kind of government intervention," said United Airlines President Scott Kirby at the time.But on Sunday night Kirby and United CEO Oscar Munoz told United's 100,000 employees that the airline would cut capacity by 50% in April and May, and it expected that only 20% to 30% of the seats on those remaining planes would be filled. That is far, far below what United needs to break even. In 2019 the carrier filled 84% of the seats it sold.On Sunday, United management started discussions with the airline's unions on ways to cut compensation costs, the largest expense at the airline. It has already offered unpaid leave to employees and it may have to make changes to pay rates or furloughs.The pilots union at United said in a letter to its membership that it will work with management to limit the losses in order to protect "the financial future of our airline."But it also said that the unions and management would announce a "call for action" this week to seek government assistance.A critical industryThe discussions on possible help for the airlines has been fast moving, sources tell CNN."This is a roller coaster, and discussions are evolving by the hour," one source familiar with the discussions told CNN. The source said that they are hoping that there is an agreement over the package over the next days and weeks, not months. They are hoping that by having laid out their request, they can speed up the process.There are about 460,000 jobs in the US airline industry, according to the Labor Department, and most of them provide good pay and strong benefits.The industry is  crucial for the efficient functioning of the US economy, not only enabling business travel but also leisure travel, which itself is a major sector of the US economy.Commercial aviation taxes and fees reached $26 billion in 2019, or about $71 million per day, according to Airlines for America, the trade group for the domestic industry. Billions of that total are paid by airline passengers, not the airlines, although lifting fees and taxes would reduce the price of airline tickets and could spur increased demand.But not even low fares are likely to get passengers back on planes amid warnings by public health officials that people should stay at home and avoid travel unless absolutely necessary."When medical experts say that our health and safety depends on people staying home and practicing social distancing, it's nearly impossible to run [an airline] business," said United executives Munoz and Kirby in their letter to employees.But despite his broad support for helping the US airlines, President Donald Trump has discussed the possibility of imposing restrictions on domestic air travel recently, although nothing along those lines has been announced.US airlines received a $15 billion bailout in the form of $5 billion in cash and $10 billion in loan guarantees following the 9/11 terrorist attack.-- CNN's Cristina Alesci contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-16T13:55:26Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/16/business/airlines-bailouts/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Most airlines will be bankrupt soon without government bailouts - CNN
description : Global aviation is shutting down because of the coronavirus outbreak and travel restrictions designed to contain it, and many airlines will need government bailouts within weeks or face bankruptcy. 
keywords : business, Most airlines will be bankrupt soon without government bailouts - CNN
content: Airlines across the world are grounding planes, laying off workers and scrambling to preserve cash as measures to contain the outbreak prompt flight bans and wipe out global travel demand. The three biggest global airline alliances, oneworld, SkyTeam and Star Alliance, urged governments to "evaluate all possible means" to assist the industry. They represent more than 58 of the world's leading carriers. Some European airlines have already issued urgent appeals for help.According to CAPA Centre for Aviation, a consultancy, most airlines in the world will be bankrupt by the end of May unless governments intervene. "Coordinated government and industry action is needed — now — if catastrophe is to be avoided," the firm said in a report published Monday. "Cash reserves are running down quickly as fleets are grounded, and what flights there are operate much less than half full," it added.The scale of the deepening crisis was underscored Monday when Europe's biggest low-cost carrier, Ryanair (RYAAY), said that it will ground most of its fleet over the next seven to 10 days. "In those countries where the fleet is not grounded, social distancing restrictions may make flying to all intents and purposes, impractical, if not, impossible," the airline said, adding that it now expected to reduce seat capacity by 80% for April and May, and could not rule out complete grounding of its fleet of 470 planes."The demand for international air travel is essentially non-existent," Scandinavian Airlines said Sunday.Lufthansa (DLAKY), which owns national carriers in Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Belgium, said the group's airlines are in discussions with their respective governments about "receiving active government support should this become necessary." One of its subsidiaries, Austrian Airlines, is temporarily suspending all flights starting March 19.   Sweeping capacity cutsMost of the world's biggest airlines have announced dramatic reductions to schedules and have idled hundreds of planes. Employees have been asked to take voluntary unpaid leave, while senior executives take pay cuts, in the face of the worst aviation crisis in history.American Airlines (AAL) said Saturday it would reduce its international capacity by three quarters between March 16 and May 6. United Airlines said it will be cutting capacity in half for April and May, while Delta (DAL) is reducing capacity by 40% in the next few months — the largest cut in the company's history. Delta is down to just one flight a day on five European routes. Governments are now facing calls from airlines for financial assistance.The US airlines' trade group made an appeal for a federal bailout worth about $50 billion on Monday. It is a stunning reversal from less than a week ago when top executives at an investor conference on March 10 insisted they were not counting on a federal help. But that was before President Donald Trump banned travel from most of Europe, the United Kingdom and Ireland, as well as a sharp decline in domestic air travel in the United States.Virgin Atlantic, which has asked staff to take two months unpaid leave, said in a statement Monday that the United Kingdom's aviation sector alone will need government support of between £5 billion and £7.5 billion ($6.1 billion and $9.2 billion).Heavily indebted budget carrier, Norwegian Air said Friday that it needed urgent help from government to strengthen its cash position. "We welcome the fact that the government has decided to remove aviation taxes in Norway, but sadly, this is not enough as we're in a very demanding situation at the moment," it said in a statement, asking government to ramp up its response.The company said Monday that it will "gradually cancel" most of its flights and temporarily lay off 90% of its workforce, or about 7,300 people."European aviation faces a precarious future and it is clear that coordinated government backing will be required to ensure the industry survives," Johan Lundgren, CEO of low-cost carrier EasyJet  (ESYJY)said in a statement Monday.The International Air Transport Association said last week that airlines will need "emergency measures to get through the crisis," urging governments to consider extending lines of credit, reducing infrastructure costs and easing taxes.IATA CEO Alexandre de Juniac has previously raised the possibility of direct government bailouts for airlines, similar to what took place in the United States after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, when the US federal government approved $5 billion in direct support and $10 billion in loan guarantees for the industry.Labor unions on both sides of the Atlantic are pleading for governments to step in. United's pilots union said Sunday there will be a "call to action" this week to ask the US administration to help, while Britain's pilots union said without "significant government support now there may not be a UK aviation industry left." There are about 460,000 jobs in the US airline industry, according to the Labor Department, and most of these are well paid with healthy benefits.Britain's biggest labor union on Monday appealed to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to implement an "urgent comprehensive financial package" to cover worker pay and extend loans to airlines and airports, or "tens of thousands of jobs" would be at risk.When deciding on which carriers to prioritize, governments in Europe will need to consider which airlines play a vital function in the economy, Bernstein analyst Daniel Roeska said Monday. These are more likely to be the legacy carriers than budget airlines, which are focused mostly on leisure travel, he added. British Airways parent, IAG (ICAGY) was unlikely to approach government for support, given its strong cash position, Roeska said.CAPA Centre for Aviation said the nature of the crisis required a global, coordinated response but said it believed that was unlikely to happen. "It will consist mostly of bailing out selected national airlines. If that is the default position, emerging from the crisis will be like entering a brutal battlefield, littered with casualties," the firm said.— Eoin McSweeney and Chris Isidore contributed reporting.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-12T11:17:36Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/12/business/airline-stocks-trump-europe-travel-ban/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Airline stocks crushed after Trump bans Europe travel over coronavirus - CNN
description : Airline stocks tumbled Thursday after President Donald Trump imposed a 30-day ban on travel from most of Europe, increasing the risk that carriers battling fallout from the coronavirus outbreak could run out of cash in the coming weeks, prompting mass layoffs and government bailouts. 
keywords : business, Airline stocks crushed after Trump bans Europe travel over coronavirus - CNN
content: The reckoning was immediate for at least one airline. Norwegian Air, a heavily indebted budget carrier, said that it was suspending over 4,000 flights and temporarily laying off up to half its workers after its stock plunged 22% on Thursday."The new restrictions imposed further pressure on an already difficult situation," CEO Jacob Schram said in a statement. "We urge international governments to act now to ensure that the aviation industry can protect jobs and continue to be a vital part of the global economic recovery."Airlines around the world have been forced to cancel huge numbers of flights and make dramatic changes to their operations as coronavirus wipes out travel demand. The industry was already facing hundreds of billions of dollars in lost sales. Trump said the new restrictions, which apply to Schengen Area nations including Germany, France, Italy and Spain, have been imposed to keep any new cases of coronavirus from entering the United States, where more than 1,200 people have been infected. Travelers within Europe's Schengen Area are not subject to passport checks or border controls.The International Air Transport Association (IATA) said airlines will need "emergency measures to get through this crisis," urging governments to consider extending lines of credit, reducing infrastructure costs and easing taxes. Bernstein analyst Daniel Roeska, who expects more governments to impose travel restrictions over the coronavirus, said there is a "decent chance" that some airlines will require government help in the next eight weeks. Even stronger airlines will be put under pressure, said Roeska, and they could be forced to quickly raise funds in the bond market. Faced with a cash crunch, some may seek financial assistance from governments."There are some differences [between airlines], but ultimately I don't think the largest airlines will be in any grave danger," he added. "It's about being able to access cash within the next three weeks."Another problem for airlines: The US State Department on Wednesday urged citizens to reconsider all travel abroad due to the coronavirus pandemic.Stocks plungeAlready battered airline stocks sold off heavily on news of the travel ban, which hits lucrative routes for some of the world's largest carriers. Shares of Lufthansa (DLAKF) fell 14% on Thursday, taking losses this year to 47%. Air France-KLM (AFLYY) closed 13% lower and has shed 57% this year. British Airways parent company IAG (ICAGY) fell 15%, even though flights from the United Kingdom and Ireland have not been suspended.Lufthansa, Delta (DAL) and United Airlines (UAL) will be most impacted by the travel ban because they hold the biggest share of the market for transatlantic flights, according to Roeska. Shares of Delta were down 13% in New York, while American Airlines (AAL) stock was off roughly 8% and United Airlines was down around 15%.Jobs at riskRoger Dow, CEO of the US Travel Association, a lobbying group based in Washington DC, said the government should consider "equally aggressive" steps to protect America's workforce. "Temporarily shutting off travel from Europe is going to exacerbate the already heavy impact of coronavirus on the travel industry and the 15.7 million Americans whose jobs depend on travel," Dow said in a statement.IATA said last week that global airlines stand to lose $113 billion in sales this year if the coronavirus continues to spread — similar to the aviation industry's losses during the global financial crisis of 2008. It warned Thursday that losses could now be even steeper, saying the total value of the market affected by Trump's ban was $20.6 billion in 2019.Major European airlines have taken dramatic steps to cut costs and shore up cash in recent weeks. Some have offered employees unpaid leave and paused or reduced hiring.Smaller carriers are most vulnerable to the demand shock delivered by the coronavirus outbreak, as the collapse of struggling UK carrier Flybe earlier this month demonstrates. Weak airlines that aren't able to secure backing from investors or governments could suffer the same fate as Flybe or become takeover targets, especially in Europe, where industry consolidation is underway."We have already seen Flybe go under. And this latest blow could push others in the same direction," IATA president Alexandre de Juniac said in a statement. A hit to travel and tourismGlobal cases of the novel coronavirus have now reached more than 124,500, with over 4,600 deaths worldwide, according to the World Health Organization, which has officially declared the virus a pandemic. Travel, tourism and hospitality are feeling the effects of the coronavirus outbreak most acutely as companies ban business travel, conferences and events are canceled, and fewer people want to travel for recreation.  The index tracking travel and leisure shares on Europe's Stoxx 600 lost more than 12%, taking losses this year to 41%. The Dow Jones US Travel and Leisure index was down 10%, bringing losses to about 35% this year.According to the US Travel Association, 850,000 international visitors entered the United States via Europe in March 2019, accounting for about 29% of total overseas arrivals and spending of about $3.4 billion.— Eoin McSweeney and Charles Riley contributed reporting.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-05T11:00:17Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/05/business/airlines-coronavirus-iata-travel/index.html
author: Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Airlines could take $113 billion hit as coronavirus slams travel industry - CNN
description : Global airlines stand to lose $113 billion in sales if the coronavirus continues to spread, according to the International Air Transport Association.
keywords : business, Airlines could take $113 billion hit as coronavirus slams travel industry - CNN
content: The losses would be similar to those experienced by the aviation industry during the global financial crisis of 2008, IATA warned as it dramatically increased its estimate of the damage caused by the outbreak. It said airlines could lose 19% of their business if the virus isn't contained soon. Just two weeks ago, IATA had been expecting lost sales in the range of $30 billion. "The turn of events as a result of [the coronavirus] is almost without precedent. In little over two months, the industry's prospects in much of the world have taken a dramatic turn for the worse," Alexandre de Juniac, the CEO of the industry group, said in a statement. "It is unclear how the virus will develop, but ... this is a crisis."Airlines in Europe and Asia would bear the brunt of the pain, according to IATA. Carriers in Asia Pacific could lose out on sales worth $58 billion. If the virus is contained soon, and economies around the world recovery quickly, total industry losses could be limited to $63 billion, he added.There are already more than 94,000 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus worldwide, and nearly 3,300 deaths, mostly in China. South Korea, Japan, Italy and Iran also already suffering major outbreaks.Travel restrictions and a lack of demand from customers have  encouraged dozen of major airlines to cancel flights to and from mainland China because of the coronavirus. Transatlantic flights, as well as capacity on routes within Europe and the United States, have also been curtailed. Struggling UK carrier Flybe collapsed earlier Thursday as the slump in demand killed off hopes of a government-backed rescue. Scottish airline Loganair said it would take over 16 of Flybe's routes over the coming months.Smaller Asian carriers under pressureAnalysts say Flybe is unlikely to be the last casualty. Josef Pospisil, managing director at Fitch Ratings, said that most big airlines have strong enough balance sheets to weather the shock to demand caused by coronavirus. But smaller carriers, especially those based in Asia, are more vulnerable."There probably will be some small players, regional players, that may be hit really hard," he told CNN Business.Weak airlines that aren't able to secure backing from investors or governments could suffer the same fate as Flybe or become takeover targets, especially in Europe, where industry consolidation is underway.The possibility of other airlines seeking bankruptcy protection or going out of business will depend on a number of factors, including the length of the outbreak, the cash position of various airlines and how quickly passenger demand returns once the crisis has passed, IATA's de Juniac said."It's difficult at this stage to say [whether there will be more bankruptcies]," he told CNN Business. "If the duration is comparable to past outbreaks of SARS or the H1N1, and it's four to five months, the industry should overcome [the crisis], perhaps with some casualties. If it lasts longer, it will be more difficult for a larger number of airlines."'It has a 9/11 feel'De Juniac said the industry has already asked some governments for relief from fees and charges airlines pay. And he raised the possibility of direct government bailouts for airlines, similar to what took place in the United States after the 9/11 attacks."If the outbreak lasts, we will probably need some government assistance in some parts of the world, especially where the airlines are weaker financially, and we will ask for help," he said.The crisis has hit the US industry hard in just the last week, said Gary Kelly, CEO of Southwest Airlines (LUV), in an interview on CNBC."It has a 9/11 feel," he said, adding that customers "don't want to fly for the obvious reason."That view was echoed by other industry executives at an aviation summit Thursday sponsored by the US Chamber of Commerce. American Airlines (AAL), the world's largest airline, is canceling international flights because of the sharp drop in demand, said American CEO Doug Parker. Investors have punished airlines stocks in recent weeks. United Airlines (UAL) stock is down 32% so far this year, for example, and shares in Germany's Lufthansa (DLAKF) are down 29% over the same period.Lufthansa said Thursday it has canceled 7,100 European flights for March, mostly within Germany or on routes to Italy, accounting for about 25% of its total capacity. Earlier this week, Lufthansa said it would ground 150 of its 770 aircraft.  Pospisil said it's still too early to work out how specific airlines will be affected. So far, the pain has followed the virus. Airlines with lots of flights to countries heavily affected by the outbreak are suffering the most."Nobody really knows how bad it's going to get," Pospisil said of the virus' spread. "I don't know, and the airlines don't know either." — Rob North, Chris Isidore and Greg Wallace contributed to this article. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-05T11:08:17Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/05/business/coronavirus-airline-cost/index.html
author: Analysis by Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Global airlines took a $7 billion hit from SARS. The coronavirus outbreak will likely be much worse - CNN
description : The airline industry is bracing for huge financial losses, as a growing number of carriers suspend flights to China because of the escalating Wuhan coronavirus outbreak. Analysts say the hit to the aviation industry will be worse than the 2003 SARS outbreak, which cost airlines some $7 billion in revenue.  
keywords : business, Global airlines took a $7 billion hit from SARS. The coronavirus outbreak will likely be much worse - CNN
content: The outbreak of the disease has already killed 492 people worldwide, mostly in China, and infected more than 24,500 people across 25 countries.In response, more than a dozen major airlines have canceled flights to and from mainland China. Several countries have also banned entry to foreigners who have traveled to China, while others have told their citizens not to travel there, or to leave if they can.The last time the aviation industry faced this kind of crisis was back in 2003, when the SARS outbreak cost Asia Pacific carriers $6 billion in revenue, according to the International Air Transport Authority (IATA). North American airlines lost $1 billion, while European carriers largely escaped unscathed, analysts say. It took nine months before international passenger traffic returned to normal, IATA said.The coronavirus will "definitely" surpass that $7 billion SARS hit, said Ivan Su, an analyst with financial services firm Morningstar.The global aviation industry, which generated $838 billion in revenue last year, will lose more money this time around for several reasons: The number of Chinese air travelers has ballooned since 2003. Chinese carriers, and the industry as a whole, are bigger now than before. And flight suspensions and travel advisories could last longer than they did during SARS, which would weigh on international airlines.A massive aviation marketAround 660 million Chinese passengers traveled by air in 2019 — more than seven times as many as in 2003, according to state news agency Xinhua and Fitch Ratings. The vast majority of those trips are for domestic travel. The boom in China far outpaced the global increase in passenger numbers, which grew from 1.7 billion in 2003 to 4.2 billion in 2018, according to the World Bank.When SARS hit, global passenger traffic fell by 18.5% in April 2003 compared to a year earlier, with a drop of almost 45% in Asia-Pacific, Fitch ratings agency said in a report lat week.This time around, the drop could be far worse. The coronavirus outbreak hit just as China was preparing for the Lunar New Year, its most significant holiday. Millions of Chinese scrapped travel plans as Beijing took the extraordinary step of placing entire cities on lockdown to contain the virus. Officials said last month that air travel on the first day of the holiday period fell more than 41% compared to a year ago. Lunar New Year aside, China has also become much more important to the global aviation industry. It is currently the world's second-largest civil aviation market, behind the United States, hauling in 1.06 trillion yuan ($151 billion) in revenue last year, according to Xinhua. Major Chinese carriers Air China (AIRYY), China Southern (ZNH) and China Eastern (CEA) "have grown easily five to sixfold compared to 2003, when they were just very, very small compared to the rest of international carriers," said Shukor Yusof, head of aviation consulting firm Endau Analytics in Malaysia. China Southern, the country's biggest airline, reported 43.7 billion yuan ($6.2 billion) in revenue in the third quarter last year. By comparison, Delta (DAL) — the top US carrier — reported revenue of $12.6 billion for the same period.Restrictions and cancellations Extensive travel restrictions will also weigh on international carriers. "Airlines are more impacted today because China is the world's economic engine," Yusof said, adding that the sweeping flight cancellations made by American Airlines (AAL), Air Canada (ACDVF), British Airways and others are "unprecedented." "This [outbreak] should be worse as travel bans have started early and it seems they will remain in force for a long period of time," said Alicia Garcia Herrero, chief economist for Asia Pacific at Natixis. During SARS, the World Health Organization issued its first emergency travel advisory about the illness in mid-March of 2003, nearly five months after the first reported cases began to emerge. The agency lifted travel advisories against Hong Kong and Beijing in May and June of that year respectively, once the outbreak had been contained in those hubs.  Most flight cancellations during SARS lasted roughly two months, according to Su of Morningstar. Hong Kong's flagship carrier Cathay Pacific (CPCAY) was among the hardest hit. At the height of the SARS outbreak, Cathay canceled 42% of its flights due to travel fears, and saw its daily passenger load fall to about 10,000 from 33,000. On Tuesday, the company announced it would cut flights by 30% worldwide for two months, including a 90% reduction in flights to mainland China during that time. The company's stock has fallen more than 11% so far this year.-- Serenitie Wang and Steven Jiang contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-03T09:58:47Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/03/business/china-eastern-coronavirus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham and Serenitie Wang, CNN Business
headline: China Eastern suspends flights to the United States over coronavirus outbreak - CNN
description : China Eastern has become the first major Chinese carrier to suspend flights to and from the United States amid the escalating Wuhan coronavirus outbreak.
keywords : business, China Eastern suspends flights to the United States over coronavirus outbreak - CNN
content: The virus has killed 361 people and sickened more than 17,000 in China so far, with nearly 180 cases confirmed in countries such as the United States, Germany and Japan. One man has died in the Philippines. Due to "the recent public health incident," China Eastern is canceling flights from Shanghai (PVG) to Los Angeles and New York (JFK) from February 2 through February 10, according to a notice circulated to travel agents and seen by CNN Business. Flights to the major US hubs were unavailable to book on China Eastern's website until March 29, however. China Eastern (CEA) did not respond to a request for comment. China Eastern is also canceling flights from Shanghai (PVG) to San Francisco on February 6 and February 9, to Chicago on February 8 and to Honolulu from February 3 until March 27, according to the notice.Several flights to Los Angeles, San Francisco and Vancouver, Canada, that originate in Chengdu or Kunming with layovers in Nanjing or Qingdao have also been canceled this week."In the days to come, China Eastern will pay close attention to the epidemic, and may further adjust the arrangements of flights," the notice said.China's two other major carriers, Air China (AIRYY) and China Southern (ZNH), did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Direct flights to the United States were still available to book on Air China and China Southern's websites on Monday. Shares in all three companies fell by about 10% — the daily maximum limit — in Shanghai on Monday, the first day of trading following the extended Lunar New Year holiday. The wider market closed down 8%.Major international airlines such Air Canada, (ACDVF) American Airlines (AAL), British Airways, Delta (DAL), Lufthansa (DLAKY) and Qatar Airways have already suspended all flights to and from mainland China until the end of February or longer. United Airlines (UAL) said Friday it was suspending flights from its US hub cities and Beijing, Chengdu and Shanghai from February 6 to March 28. This week, the carrier will "operate select flights to help ensure our US-based employees, as well as customers, have options to return home," it said in a statement.A growing number of countries, including the United States, Australia, New Zealand and South Korea, have begun barring entry to all foreigners who have traveled to mainland China, with Italy and Israel stopping all incoming air traffic from the country. Many more countries have told their citizens not to travel to mainland China. Beijing officials said on Sunday that the outbreak has nearly wiped out all inbound travel to China's capital city. Train and flight bookings to Beijing in the coming days has plunged more than 70% compared to a year earlier, Rong Jun, deputy commissioner of the Beijing Transportation Commission, told reporters on Sunday. He did not specify a time frame. Travel to and from Beijing also fell more than 60% during the Lunar New Year period, China's peak travel season, Rong added. -- Alexandra Lin contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-04T21:01:59Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/04/business/united-us-flight-cuts-coronavirus/index.html
author: Chris Isidore, CNN Business
headline: United, JetBlue cutting US flights because of coronavirus - CNN
description : United Airlines and JetBlue Airways became the first airlines to cut their US flight schedules on Wednesday, as passenger worry about the coronavirus has caused a sharp drop in demand.
keywords : business, United, JetBlue cutting US flights because of coronavirus - CNN
content: While airlines around the world have been making steep cuts in international flights, these are the first set of cuts made to a US flight schedule.United will ax flights in the United States and Canada by 10% and overseas flights by a total 20% in April from its original international schedule. That includes overseas flights that were canceled several weeks ago. United is looking at similar domestic and international cuts in May. The moves were disclosed in an email Wednesday to employees made available to CNN. It also disclosed a hiring freeze, a program of voluntary unpaid leaves of absences or a reduced schedule for US employees and a delay of scheduled pay raises for management employees.The airline plans to cut the schedule "in a way that minimizes the impact on our employees and our operation," according to the email, including reducing frequency of flights per week between two cities or cutting routes with alternative travel options via indirect flights. The email did not give details about how much travel had fallen at United amid the growing fears of the spread of the coronavirus in the United States. The crisis "continues to evolve rapidly" for the airline industry, said the email from CEO Oscar Munoz, and Scott Kirby, United's president who is set to succeed Munoz in May."We sincerely hope that these latest measures are enough, but the dynamic nature of this outbreak requires us to be nimble and flexible moving forward in how we respond," said the email.Later Wednesday, JetBlue confirmed that it would take action in response to the coronavirus, including a plan to reduce capacity by an "initial" 5% "in the near term.""We are closely monitoring booking trends to assess whether additional capacity reductions will be required," the airline said in a statement. It added that passengers who are booked on affected flights will be moved to other flights that will get them to their destinations "on the same day."JetBlue said it is looking at measures to preserve cash, "including reducing hiring for both frontline and support center positions, considering voluntary time off programs as appropriate, and limiting non-essential spending."United had already warned investors that the crisis had cut virtually all of its revenue on flights to China and Hong Kong during the current quarter, and about 75% on other trans-Pacific flights. But it said that it still expects to hit its earnings target for the quarter due partly to lower spending on fuel. Besides the fuel savings that comes from canceling flights, the price of jet fuel has plunged in recent weeks.But the email did not give any new guidance on earnings. And it warned that  "a lot has changed since this weekend."Shares of United (UAL) closed up 2% on Wednesday and JetBlue (JBLU) shares gained 3.5% as stocks rebounded from a recent sell-off. But shares of both airlines are still down nearly 25% since Feb. 21.As for other airlines cutting back their flights, a company spokesperson for American Airlines (AAL) said, "We are continuing to closely monitor the situation and will make any updates as necessary." Executives from most of the major airlines, including United CEO Oscar Munoz, met with President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence Wednesday to discuss the impact of the coronavirus on air travel and how to coordinate activity between the industry and the government. In response to a question, President Trump said he did not believe that the airlines would need a bailout, similar to the one they received in 2001 in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks."Don't ask that question please, because they haven't asked [for] that. I don't want you to give them any ideas," said Trump about the possibility of a bailout. He said the idea had not been discussed. He also said he believes flying is safe."Where these people are flying, it's safe to fly," he said.Passenger uncertainty about travel has prompted major US airlines to suspend their change fees, which itself is hurting their revenue.JetBlue was the first to announce a suspension of the fee last week, and American suspended its fees on Sunday. Delta (DAL) suspended the fees for international travel on Monday evening and on all tickets Wednesday. United announced Tuesday it would suspend its change fee. But fees are only being suspended on newly booked tickets.The airlines take in a tremendous amount of money on change fees. In the third quarter alone the US carriers took in $739 million in change fees, and $2.8 billion in change fees for the 12 months ending in September. Southwest (LUV) in the only major US airline that generally does not charge change fees. A spokesman for the company said it is monitoring the situation and "will make any necessary adjustment we see fit." 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-02T19:51:26Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/02/business/american-airlines-change-fees/index.html
author: Chris Isidore, CNN Business
headline: American Airlines suspends change fees for canceled trips - CNN
description : In another sign of cratering travel demand, American Airlines is suspending the fees it charges to change or cancel a flight. 
keywords : business, American Airlines suspends change fees for canceled trips - CNN
content: Although American (AAL) didn't mention the coronavirus in its change fee announcement on Sunday evening, fears over the outbreak have probably dented bookings for the upcoming spring break and Easter travel season, as well as summer travel. Those are among the key periods of the year for US airlines."[Waiving the change fee] is probably the only way I can get people to book," said Michael Boyd, an airline consultant. "There's just too much uncertainty right now among passengers. I think all the airlines are going to have to go to it at some point."American charges varying change fees, but they can be as high as $200 for a domestic flight or $750 for an international flight changed before the day of travel. Same-day change fees range from $75 to $150. For now, the fee waiver covers only tickets purchased between Sunday evening and March 16. To qualify, passengers must change or cancel travel plans at least 14 days before the scheduled flight. The flights can be moved to any future date for which American is taking reservations. Those charges add up. American collected $206.7 million in change fees in just the third quarter of last year, the most recent period for which data is available, and $821.5 million in the 12 months ending in September, according to the US Bureau of Transportation Statistics.Last week JetBlue (JBLU) announced a similar suspension of change and cancellation fees for travel through June 20. Unlike American, JetBlue explicitly cited passenger uncertainty becaues of coronavirus."While authorities have not issued any travel restrictions to the locations we fly, we want to give our customers some peace of mind that we are ready to support them should the situation change," JetBlue President Joanna Geraghty said in the statement.Delta Air Lines (DAL) said it is waiving change fees only on flights to cities where there has been an outbreak of the virus, including Beijing and Shanghai, China, Seoul, South Korea and numerous cities in Northern Italy. The airline also announced Monday it was discontinuing service between New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport and Milan, effective through the end of April. But Delta has not suspended change fees. Neither has United Airlines (UAL). Southwest Airlines (LUV), the other major US carrier, generally does not charge change fees.Several US airline CEOs are set to meet with Vice President Mike Pence on Wednesday, Pence's office confirmed Monday. Pence, who is leading the government response to coronavirus, will also meet with cruise line CEOs on Saturday.Airline stocks have been hit particularly hard in the recent market sell-off. The NYSE Arca Airline stock index has lost nearly 25% of its value since the close on Friday, February 21.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-04T21:01:59Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/04/business/united-us-flight-cuts-coronavirus/index.html
author: Chris Isidore, CNN Business
headline: United, JetBlue cutting US flights because of coronavirus - CNN
description : United Airlines and JetBlue Airways became the first airlines to cut their US flight schedules on Wednesday, as passenger worry about the coronavirus has caused a sharp drop in demand.
keywords : business, United, JetBlue cutting US flights because of coronavirus - CNN
content: While airlines around the world have been making steep cuts in international flights, these are the first set of cuts made to a US flight schedule.United will ax flights in the United States and Canada by 10% and overseas flights by a total 20% in April from its original international schedule. That includes overseas flights that were canceled several weeks ago. United is looking at similar domestic and international cuts in May. The moves were disclosed in an email Wednesday to employees made available to CNN. It also disclosed a hiring freeze, a program of voluntary unpaid leaves of absences or a reduced schedule for US employees and a delay of scheduled pay raises for management employees.The airline plans to cut the schedule "in a way that minimizes the impact on our employees and our operation," according to the email, including reducing frequency of flights per week between two cities or cutting routes with alternative travel options via indirect flights. The email did not give details about how much travel had fallen at United amid the growing fears of the spread of the coronavirus in the United States. The crisis "continues to evolve rapidly" for the airline industry, said the email from CEO Oscar Munoz, and Scott Kirby, United's president who is set to succeed Munoz in May."We sincerely hope that these latest measures are enough, but the dynamic nature of this outbreak requires us to be nimble and flexible moving forward in how we respond," said the email.Later Wednesday, JetBlue confirmed that it would take action in response to the coronavirus, including a plan to reduce capacity by an "initial" 5% "in the near term.""We are closely monitoring booking trends to assess whether additional capacity reductions will be required," the airline said in a statement. It added that passengers who are booked on affected flights will be moved to other flights that will get them to their destinations "on the same day."JetBlue said it is looking at measures to preserve cash, "including reducing hiring for both frontline and support center positions, considering voluntary time off programs as appropriate, and limiting non-essential spending."United had already warned investors that the crisis had cut virtually all of its revenue on flights to China and Hong Kong during the current quarter, and about 75% on other trans-Pacific flights. But it said that it still expects to hit its earnings target for the quarter due partly to lower spending on fuel. Besides the fuel savings that comes from canceling flights, the price of jet fuel has plunged in recent weeks.But the email did not give any new guidance on earnings. And it warned that  "a lot has changed since this weekend."Shares of United (UAL) closed up 2% on Wednesday and JetBlue (JBLU) shares gained 3.5% as stocks rebounded from a recent sell-off. But shares of both airlines are still down nearly 25% since Feb. 21.As for other airlines cutting back their flights, a company spokesperson for American Airlines (AAL) said, "We are continuing to closely monitor the situation and will make any updates as necessary." Executives from most of the major airlines, including United CEO Oscar Munoz, met with President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence Wednesday to discuss the impact of the coronavirus on air travel and how to coordinate activity between the industry and the government. In response to a question, President Trump said he did not believe that the airlines would need a bailout, similar to the one they received in 2001 in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks."Don't ask that question please, because they haven't asked [for] that. I don't want you to give them any ideas," said Trump about the possibility of a bailout. He said the idea had not been discussed. He also said he believes flying is safe."Where these people are flying, it's safe to fly," he said.Passenger uncertainty about travel has prompted major US airlines to suspend their change fees, which itself is hurting their revenue.JetBlue was the first to announce a suspension of the fee last week, and American suspended its fees on Sunday. Delta (DAL) suspended the fees for international travel on Monday evening and on all tickets Wednesday. United announced Tuesday it would suspend its change fee. But fees are only being suspended on newly booked tickets.The airlines take in a tremendous amount of money on change fees. In the third quarter alone the US carriers took in $739 million in change fees, and $2.8 billion in change fees for the 12 months ending in September. Southwest (LUV) in the only major US airline that generally does not charge change fees. A spokesman for the company said it is monitoring the situation and "will make any necessary adjustment we see fit." 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-05T04:01:23Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/04/business/flybe-collapse-2020/index.html
author: Michelle Toh, CNN Business
headline: Flybe collapses as the coronavirus crisis deals the final blow - CNN
description : UK airline Flybe has officially entered administration.
keywords : business, Flybe collapses as the coronavirus crisis deals the final blow - CNN
content: Flybe told customers that it has grounded all flights as it enters administration, adding that its business in the United Kingdom had "ceased trading with immediate effect.""If you are due to fly with Flybe, please DO NOT TRAVEL TO THE AIRPORT unless you have arranged an alternative flight with another airline," the company told customers in a statement Thursday. "Please note that Flybe is unfortunately not able to arrange alternative flights for passengers."The Exeter-based budget carrier was founded in 1979 and at one point was Europe's largest independent regional airline, carrying 8 million passengers a year and operating more than 200 routes.The airline had been struggling for a while. The UK government announced in January that it was talking to the company about its finances and exploring options for a rescue, adding that Flybe's management and shareholders were setting the airline "on a recovery path."But Flybe's financial challenges had been "compounded by the outbreak of coronavirus which in the last few days has resulted in a significant impact on demand," the airline said in a statement widely reported by UK media.The entire global airline industry has been tipped into crisis by the outbreak, which began in China and has now spread to every continent except Antarctica. Collapsing demand for travel has caused airlines to make savage cuts to their flight schedules, ground planes and ask staff to take unpaid leave to manage the loss of business. The International Air Transport Authority warned Thursday that airlines stand to lose $113 billion in sales if the coronavirus continues to spread around the world. Just two weeks ago, IATA had been expecting lost sales in the range of $30 billion.Rafael Schvartzman, the regional vice president for IATA, said the collapse of Flybe demonstrated the urgent need for governments to support airlines."This development is proof that urgent action is required across Europe to protect air connectivity during a period of almost unprecedented crisis," he said in a statement.A UK government spokesperson said in a statement that "Flybe's financial difficulties were longstanding and well documented and pre-date the outbreak of Covid-19," referring to the official name for the disease. The government said it is working with the industry to minimize disruption to Flybe routes, "including by looking urgently at how routes not already covered by other airlines can be re-established."Authorities are also asking other airlines to offer passengers reduced fares, and is requesting that train and bus companies accept Flybe tickets as payment."Very sad that @flybe has gone out of business after serving passengers for four decades," Grant Shapps, the British secretary of state for transport, tweeted Thursday. "Government staff will be on hand at UK airports ready to assist."Loganair, a Scottish airline, said it would take over 16 of Flybe's routes, with flights commencing in stages over the next four months.The UK Department for Transportation said it would help Flybe staff members look for new jobs "as soon as possible."  
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-29T20:02:25Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/29/business/travel-industry-coronavirus-economic-impact/index.html
author: Chris Isidore, CNN Business
headline: The travel industry, a linchpin of the global economy, is suffering its worst shock since 9/11 - CNN
description : It's one of the largest industries in the world, with $5.7 trillion in revenue. It is responsible for an estimated 319 million jobs, or roughly one in 10 people working on the planet. And no sector is more at risk from the novel coronavirus.
keywords : business, The travel industry, a linchpin of the global economy, is suffering its worst shock since 9/11 - CNN
content: The travel industry has already taken a huge hit due to travel restrictions and canceled trips for both business and pleasure, but that's just the beginning.It could be the worst crisis for the industry since the September 11 terrorist attacks on the United States, according to some experts."It's on the front line of the fallout," said Mark Zandi, chief economist with Moody's Analytics. "It's the most directly and immediately impacted."Travel industry crucial to the global economyThe hit to the travel industry has the potential to become a major drag on the global economy if the coronavirus continues to spread around the world. "It's vital. If you measure the entirely of the impact of travel, it is bigger than any other industry around the world. No other industry can say it supports 1 in 10 jobs," said Adam Sacks, president of Tourism Economics, a leading research firm that follows the industry. His firm produced the data on the industry's global revenue and employment, the latter for the World Travel and Tourism Council."It's partly because it's such a diverse industry. It includes a lot of things you don't think of," said Sacks. "Besides airlines and hotels, it's part of retail, part of restaurants, parts of technology."The effect on travel is growing by the day. There has been a sharp drop in travel across the Pacific, not just to and from China, the epicenter of the outbreak, but also to other Asian countries. This week United Airlines disclosed that it had seen a near total drop in demand to China and about a 75% decline in near-term demand on the rest of its trans-Pacific routes.Chinese nationals have become the most frequent global travelers in the world, with 180 million holding passports, compared to the 147 million Americans who have passports. And travel by the Chinese has been virtually halted due to the crisis.Sharp drop in business travelThe falloff in travel has expanded beyond the Chinese market. Several major conferences expected to draw more than 100,000 visitors each were canceled even if their location has yet to experience an outbreak. That's because people traveling from around the world could bring the virus to the event, and infected people are slow to show symptoms. Canceled conferences include the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, the leading show for the mobile phone industry, the Geneva Motor Show, Facebook's (FB) F8 conference, and ironically enough, the ITB Berlin, the leading trade show for the travel industry itself. It was expected to draw 160,000 participants starting Wednesday."The fact that the largest global travel show is being canceled right now is telling," said Sacks.But it's not just the big shows being canceled. All kinds of business trips are being canceled or put on hold because of companies' concerns with exposing employees to unknown risks.Major companies such as Amazon (AMZN) are on record discouraging non-essential travel for employees. According to a survey of 400 businesses by the Global Business Travel Association, nearly half of businesses have already canceled or postponed at least some meetings or travel. The group estimates that up to 37% of business travel is at risk of being lost.The steep and immediate drop in willingness to travel is comparable to what happened following the 9/11 attacks, said Scott Solombrino, the trade group's executive director. Confidence started to improve as time passed after the attacks, he said. In the case of coronavirus, the concern about travel is growing each day amid new reports of outbreaks around the world."It is fundamentally affecting the way many companies are now doing business," he said. "If this turns into a global pandemic, the industry may well lose billions of dollars -- an impact that will have negative ramifications for the entire global economy."Leisure travel also affectedIt's not just business travel. Americans who were busy making plans for spring and summer trips are also thinking twice.A survey of 1,200 US adults by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that one in eight have already changed their travel plans due to concerns about the virus.  The overall impact depends on how long the outbreak continues. Past health crises, such as SARS epidemic, indicate people will be willing to start traveling as normal again soon after there is a sense that is safe to do so, Sacks said."Travel globally is incredibly resilient," he said. "People's desire and need to travel outweigh their concerns fairly quickly."But much of the travel that has been lost already, or will be canceled in weeks or months to come, is unlikely to be made up."This is gone, lost forever," said Zandi. "It's not like you'll hold two conferences in the fall if the one this spring is canceled."Job losses to comeSo far there has not been deep job cuts announced in the travel industry. But millions of workers could lose their jobs, or have their hours cut, if the demand for travel continues to be depressed. That is especially true for lower paid service jobs such as housekeeping at hotels and waiters and waitresses at restaurants. And as those workers are forced to cut back their own spending, the impact of the slowdown will ripple through the broader economy."Lower income workers will be hit harder," said Sung Won Sohn, professor of business at Loyola Marymount Unviersity. "They'll have to cut back their spending immediately. That has a significant multiplying effect throughout the world." He said the drop in economic activity globally could be as much as $1 trillion.Experts don't believe that the hit to the travel industry is enough to spark a global recession by itself. But the virus is having a widespread effect on the global economy. There has been a steep plunge in financial markets and the resulting wealth destruction, the disruption of global supply chains for manufacturers and retailers around the globe, the drop in energy prices and production due to reduced consumption All those things could combine with the hit to the travel industry to bring about a global recession."I don't think the worst is behind us in terms of the economic impact. The worst is yet to come," said Sohn. Correction: A previous version of this article misidentified the firm for which Adam Sacks is president.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-28T10:19:53Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/28/business/global-tourism-novel-coronavirus/index.html
author: Analysis by Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: The global travel industry may not recover for years as coronavirus grounds Chinese tourists  - CNN
description : Countries have been eager to cash in on the rising spending power of Chinese travelers. Shops advertise Mandarin speaking salespeople, the United States and Japan offer 10-year visas, and hotels and duty-free retailers accept China's Alipay and WeChat Pay systems.
keywords : business, The global travel industry may not recover for years as coronavirus grounds Chinese tourists  - CNN
content: The travel boom has come to a screeching halt since late January, when the novel coronavirus outbreak hit mainland China, and it could be years before the global tourism industry recovers. To contain the virus, millions of Chinese are hunkering down, flights have been canceled and countries are imposing restrictions on anyone coming from mainland China. The knock-on effects are being felt around the globe. Tour groups and cruise lines are canceling trips because of plummeting demand. International fairs and conferences from Hong Kong to Italy are being shelved. And hotels that are usually teeming with Chinese tourists are sitting empty. Billions of dollars of Chinese spending are at stakeThe number of Chinese tourists has skyrocketed in recent years. More than 180 million Chinese have passports, compared to about 147 million American passport holders. And when Chinese travel abroad, they spend big bucks. Chinese tourists made 150 million outbound trips in 2018, spending a whopping $277 billion in their travels abroad, according to the United Nations World Trade Organization. Around Asia, the influx of Chinese travelers has been a boon. Last year, the top 10 destinations for mainland Chinese travelers were all in Asia, according to China Outbound Tourism Research. That means places like Thailand, Japan South Korea and Vietnam have a lot to lose from the crippling viral outbreak. Hong Kong and Macao, both major destinations for mainland tourists, will suffer, too. "China is the single largest outbound travel market in the world, in terms of spending," Matthew Dass, an economist with Tourism Economics, said in a research note earlier this month. Tourism Economics downgraded its 2020 forecast for Chinese departures because of the coronavirus earlier this month. The firm said that if the outbreak lasts longer and is more severe than the 2003 SARS crisis, it could lead to 25 million fewer outbound trips by Chinese travelers this year. That could wipe out as much as $73 billion in spending. The International Civil Aviation Organization said the hardest hit countries will likely be Japan and Thailand. The organization estimated earlier this month that Japan could lose $1.29 billion in tourism revenue, followed by Thailand at $1.15 billion. "This outbreak is beyond anyone's imagination," Jane Sun, CEO of Trip.com, told CNN Business on Monday.  Trip.com, China's largest online travel platform, was supposed to release fourth quarter earnings this week, but delayed them until the middle of March. The company also owns and operates Skyscanner and Ctrip.The final numbers are still being crunched, but Sun said the company will "of course" take a hit from the outbreak. She warned that the impact to her company and the travel industry during this quarter "might be significant." Hotels and airlines face steep lossesMarriott (MAR) said on Thursday that it is experiencing low occupancy throughout the Asia Pacific region because of the outbreak. In Macao, occupancy plummeted to 1% at one point, CEO and president Arne Sorenson said on a call with investors. The semi-autonomous Chinese territory, one of the world's top gambling hubs, closed casinos for two weeks this month because of the outbreak.Marriott executives warned that the company could take in $60 million less in fees and earnings for the region than it originally expected for the quarter.As the outbreak spreads to other countries, Marriott hotels in Europe and beyond are also starting to feel the pain. "When you look at South Korea and Italy, we will see both cancellations and we will see declining (revenue per available room) in those markets," said Sorenson. "Some of the Italian cities, we've probably lost a few tens of points of occupancy in the first days."During an earnings call earlier this month, Hilton (HLT) executives warned of likely declines in bookings from outbound Chinese travelers in Asia and the United States. The outbreak will carve between $25 million to $50 million from the company's full year earnings, said CEO and president Christopher Nassetta.The global airline industry is also facing huge financial losses and its first traffic decline in more than a decade because of the coronavirus.The International Air Transport Authority (IATA) warned last week that the impact on demand could cost airlines more than $29 billion.The outbreak will also likely reduce global traffic by 4.7%, wiping out IATA's earlier forecast for growth and marking the first overall decline in demand since the global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009.Dozens of international carriers have canceled or reduced services to mainland China. Air France-KLM (AFLYY) warned that its earnings could fall by as much as $216 million between February and April because of the outbreak. Australia's Qantas Airlines (QABSY) said the virus could wipe $100 million off of pre-tax profit from the second half of the company's fiscal year. China is the largest source of tourists to Australia.Cruise industry in crisis China was expected to become the world's largest cruise market by 2030, according to a recent study from the Shanghai International Shipping Institute. The crisis aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship could derail that plan. The vessel became a floating quarantine zone earlier this month, after dozens of passengers were stricken with the coronavirus. About 700 cases, including at least four deaths, have been linked to the outbreak on the ship.  "China could be closed to cruise travel for a year or more and even once it reopens, many potential consumers may have a negative association with cruise travel, which could limit the long-term growth trajectory," said James Hardiman, an analyst with Wedbush.  China was the second largest market for cruise ship passengers in 2018, with nearly 2.4 million Chinese sailing that year, according to the most recent global passenger report from Cruise Lines International Association. The United States remained the top market, with more than 13 million Americans traveling on a cruise in 2018. Ingrid Leung, the managing director of Incruising Travel Asia, a Hong Kong-based travel company that sells cruise packages, said new bookings are currently down 95%. That's partly because Princess Cruises parent company Carnival (CCL) and Royale Caribbean Cruises introduced restrictions because of the outbreak, barring any passengers who have traveled to mainland China and Hong Kong in the last two weeks from sailing. The restrictions are in place until at least the end of March, but Leung said the slump to her business will likely continue until the end of the year. "Instead of targeting sailings in the second quarter or the third quarter, we probably need to sell the fourth quarter 2020 or beyond," Leung said. Carnival said earlier this month that the coronavirus' impact on global bookings and canceled trips "will have a material impact" on the company's financial results. Domestic Chinese travel will also sufferThe coronavirus outbreak hit during the critical Lunar New Year holiday, a time when millions across China travel home for family reunions. Beijing took the extraordinary step of extending the holiday until mid-February to try and contain the outbreak. Roughly half the country remains under travel restrictions. All told, the coronavirus could result in 90 million fewer domestic trips and $115 billion in lost spending, according to the most severe scenario laid out by Tourism Economics.  InterContinental (IHG) has closed or partially closed 160 of its 470 hotels in greater China, a region that includes Taiwan and Hong Kong. "We're seeing significant reductions in occupancy in the month of February across the entirety of the business," chief executive Keith Barr said during an earnings call earlier this month, adding that the disruption will cost the company about $5 million for February alone. Airbnb is also feeling the effects. The short-term housing company said it has suspended all bookings in Beijing until May, in accordance with government guidance. Bookings in other areas, including Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, have been suspended until April.Chinese airlines will also be hard hit. Research firm Cirium found that more than 200,000 domestic flights in China were canceled between January 23 and February 18. The top three airlines most affected during that time were Chinese carriers Lucky Air, China Southern (ZNH) and Xiamen Airlines — each canceled nearly 50% of their flights. Recovery could take yearsSo far, Trip.com's Sun said "millions of orders have been canceled," referring to both domestic and international trips. But she said the company is already seeing signs of pent-up demand. After hunkering down for more than a month, "staying at home doing nothing, if we look at our search results, lots of people are ready to go out," she said. Millions of Chinese may be itching to travel, but it'll be hard to make up for lost ground.The World Tourism and Travel Council analyzed previous major viral epidemics, and found that the average recovery time for visitor numbers to a destination was 19 months. Tourism Economics said Chinese travel demand will likely start to tick up later this year or by 2021. But full recovery could take far longer. The research firm forecasts that China's outbound and domestic travel markets won't fully recover until about 2023.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-27T18:15:44Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/27/business/coronavirus-business-travel-ban/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Business travel banned as Europe's coronavirus outbreak escalates - CNN
description : Big European companies have started to ban or restrict business travel for hundreds of thousands of employees as the coronavirus outbreak accelerates. 
keywords : business, Business travel banned as Europe's coronavirus outbreak escalates - CNN
content: The restrictions are piling pressure on airlines and the broader travel industry, which faces a monthly hit of more than $46 billion from the coronavirus, according to the Global Business Travel Association, a trade body based in Washington, D.C.Nestlé (NSRGF), the world's largest food company, said Thursday it has asked all 291,000 of its employees not to travel internationally for business until the middle of March. "Domestic travel should be replaced by alternative methods of communication where possible," a company spokesperson added.A spokesperson for L'Oreal (LRLCY) said all business trips have been suspended until the end of March "as a precautionary measure."Consumer goods giant Unilever (UL) said it has been restricting travel to and from northern Italy and other affected countries. Beyond that the guidance is "business-critical travel only," a company spokesperson said.Between them, Nestlé, L'Oreal and Unilever employ about 532,000 people worldwide. Italian bank UniCredit (UNCFF) and Amsterdam-based tech group Prosus (PROSY) have also implemented company-wide travel bans to reduce the risk of employees catching the coronavirus. US agricultural company Cargill also said it has banned all non-essential business travel.If more companies do the same, the pressure will build on an aviation industry that is already reeling from a slump in demand for passenger and cargo traffic with Asia.Major European airlines are already taking steps to cut costs. Lufthansa (DLAKY) and Air France-KLM (AFLYY) announced this week that they are offering employees unpaid leave and pausing or reducing hiring. IAG (ICAGY), the parent company of British Airways, said Friday that it could not give accurate profit guidance for 2020 "given the ongoing uncertainty of the potential impact and duration" of the coronavirus. Its stock was trading more than 8% weaker on Friday morning in London, taking losses this week to 24%.In a letter seen by CNN Business, Air France-KLM CFO Erik Swelheim told managers that non-critical investments, such as refurbishment of buildings and hangars, will be delayed. Spend on advertising and IT will be reduced, he said. The impact on the airline's revenue from the coronavirus "will be very significant and will only partly be mitigated by lower costs and a lower fuel price," Swelheim said. "We will have to take immediate measures to safeguard our operating income, in order to protect our necessary investment program," he added. The company's share price is off more than 23% this week.Lufthansa said flight attendant training courses planned for April would be canceled. Participants already on courses will not be hired in the short term. The airline, which has grounded 13 aircraft due to a decline in demand, said it is considering expanding part-time work options. The stock was down 5% in Germany on Friday, extending losses this week to 21%.European economyThere are also signs that flights within Europe are being disrupted. British Airways said it is reducing the number of flights between London and Milan's Linate airport over the next two weeks due to falling demand. Milan is located in the northern region of Lombardy, where Italy has recorded most of its coronavirus cases.The airline will also reduce its daily service to Seoul to three to four times weekly starting on March 13, adding to existing reductions on other Asian routes and the ongoing suspension of flights to mainland China.Europe's largest low-cost carrier, Ryanair (RYAAY), which flies to more than 20 Italian destinations including Milan, said Thursday that all its flights are operating as normal.Airport operators are also feeling the pain. Fraport, which owns Frankfurt airport, said the virus outbreak is having a "major impact" on "all business areas," including flight operations, ground handling, cargo and retail. The international aviation hub is pausing non-essential hiring and offering employees voluntary unpaid leave or reduced working hours. Working from homeWhile travel restrictions are becoming commonplace, there is little sign yet of a widespread drive to encourage home working in Europe.Chevron's (CVX) employees in its London Canary Wharf office, where it employs 300 people, have been working from home since Tuesday, after an employee experiencing flu-like symptoms was tested for coronavirus. But big global banks such as HSBC (HBCYF) and Barclays (BCS), which have their head offices nearby, told CNN Business that staff are still coming in to the office.UniCredit has encouraged employees located in the towns "worst affected" to rely on remote working where possible.Nestlé said it has asked employees who have traveled to "affected countries," including Italy, France, Germany, Spain, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States, in the last two weeks to work from home for 14 days "where possible."By contrast, in an attempt to limit social contact and slow the spread of the virus, millions of employees in Asia have been working from home for weeks since the outbreak accelerated in China late last month. - Eoin McSweeney contributed reporting. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-25T22:59:03Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/25/business/chevron-coronavirus-london/index.html
author: Matt Egan, CNN Business
headline: Canary Wharf lockdown: Chevron tells London employees to work from home amid coronavirus jitters  - CNN
description : Chevron instructed its workers at its London office to work from home Tuesday after an employee experiencing flu-like symptoms was tested for coronavirus, a person familiar with the matter told CNN Business.
keywords : business, Canary Wharf lockdown: Chevron tells London employees to work from home amid coronavirus jitters  - CNN
content: In an abundance of caution, employees at the office located in London's Canary Wharf business hub have been told to work remotely until results from that test are known, the person said. There is no known coronavirus outbreak in the office. The Westferry Circus office is home to several hundred Chevron (CVX) employees, including commodity traders, shipping experts and lawyers. "Chevron continues to monitor the situation very closely, utilizing the guidance of international and local health authorities," the company said in a statement. "Our primary concern is the health and safety of our employees and we are taking precautionary measures to reduce their risk of exposure."The news is the latest example of how the coronavirus is disrupting businesses around the world. In recent days, Apple (AAPL) has warned of iPhone shortages, Coca-Cola  (KO)said its supply chain is under pressure and United Airlines  (UAL)said demand for flights to Asia has plunged. Countless employees have been forced to work from home in parts of China, the epicenter of the coronavirus where travel has been severely restricted. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-25T22:59:03Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/25/business/chevron-coronavirus-london/index.html
author: Matt Egan, CNN Business
headline: Canary Wharf lockdown: Chevron tells London employees to work from home amid coronavirus jitters  - CNN
description : Chevron instructed its workers at its London office to work from home Tuesday after an employee experiencing flu-like symptoms was tested for coronavirus, a person familiar with the matter told CNN Business.
keywords : business, Canary Wharf lockdown: Chevron tells London employees to work from home amid coronavirus jitters  - CNN
content: In an abundance of caution, employees at the office located in London's Canary Wharf business hub have been told to work remotely until results from that test are known, the person said. There is no known coronavirus outbreak in the office. The Westferry Circus office is home to several hundred Chevron (CVX) employees, including commodity traders, shipping experts and lawyers. "Chevron continues to monitor the situation very closely, utilizing the guidance of international and local health authorities," the company said in a statement. "Our primary concern is the health and safety of our employees and we are taking precautionary measures to reduce their risk of exposure."The news is the latest example of how the coronavirus is disrupting businesses around the world. In recent days, Apple (AAPL) has warned of iPhone shortages, Coca-Cola  (KO)said its supply chain is under pressure and United Airlines  (UAL)said demand for flights to Asia has plunged. Countless employees have been forced to work from home in parts of China, the epicenter of the coronavirus where travel has been severely restricted. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-28T06:02:38Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/28/business/tokyo-disney-coronavirus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham and Yoko Wakatsuki, CNN Business
headline: Tokyo Disney parks closing for two weeks over coronavirus - CNN
description : Disney is closing down its theme parks in Japan as the novel coronavirus outbreak in that country escalates. 
keywords : business, Tokyo Disney parks closing for two weeks over coronavirus - CNN
content: Tokyo Disneyland and DisneySea will shut down on Saturday and stay closed through March 15, the parks' operator Oriental Land announced on Friday. The closure comes in the wake of a request by Japan's government to cancel or postpone big gatherings and events over the next few weeks to prevent the spread of coronavirus.  The virus has killed eight people in Japan, and sickened more than 900, the vast majority of them connected to the a cruise ship that became a floating quarantine zone off of Yokohoma earlier this month. Worldwide, there are at least 2,800 deaths, mostly in mainland China, and more than 83,000 global cases, with infections on every continent except Antarctica. The Tokyo resort said it will refund guests for admission fees and hotel bookings. It said the park, for now, is scheduled to reopen on March 16.The Tokyo closures are the latest business headache for Disney in Asia. The company closed its theme parks in Shanghai and in Hong Kong last month over coronavirus fears, just before the Lunar New Year holiday. Earlier this month, Disney warned that those closures, along with fallout from Hong Kong's mass protests, could carve $280 million in profit from the current quarter. The company added that the coronavirus will hurt its results for the fiscal year as a whole.For now, the properties in Hong Kong and Shanghai are closed indefinitely, and "the precise magnitude of the financial impact is highly dependent on the duration of the closures," Chief Financial Officer Christine McCarthy said on an earnings call earlier this month.-- Michelle Toh contributed to this report. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-05T10:15:52Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/05/business/disney-shanghai-hong-kong-parks-coronavirus/index.html
author: Michelle Toh, CNN Business
headline: Disney could take a $280 million hit from its Chinese parks because of the coronavirus and protests - CNN
description : Disney is counting costs of the deadly coronavirus outbreak as two of its parks remain closed in China.
keywords : business, Disney could take a $280 million hit from its Chinese parks because of the coronavirus and protests - CNN
content: The company warned of the potential hit to park profit during its earnings call Tuesday, adding that the coronavirus will hurt its results for the quarter through March and the fiscal year as a whole. Disney (DIS) suspended operations at some of its facilities in China last month in response to the ongoing public health crisis, which has killed nearly 500 people and infected more than 24,500 — mostly in mainland China. For now, the properties in Hong Kong and Shanghai are closed indefinitely, and "the precise magnitude of the financial impact is highly dependent on the duration of the closures," Chief Financial Officer Christine McCarthy said.Operating income at the company's Shanghai park could drop by about $135 million this quarter if the park remains closed for two months, she added.The Hong Kong park, which has long struggled to gain traction, was already suffering from the drop in tourism because of mass protests that gripped the city in the second half of 2019. Between the protests and the virus, the Hong Kong park could lose roughly $145 million in operating income over the quarter, McCarthy said. The virus outbreak in China struck at a particularly bad time for businesses. The country recently celebrated its biggest holiday, the Lunar New Year, which is typically a boon for the entertainment and travel sectors as most Chinese residents enjoy a week off. This year, many companies are missing out on the boom that the holiday usually brings.McCarthy said that this period is normally rewarding for Disney, with "strong attendance and occupancy levels." Earnings from Disney's Shanghai park had become especially important. Prior to the outbreak, attendance there had been growing, which was helping offset poor performance at the Hong Kong resort, the company said. The events in China dampened an otherwise strong quarter for Disney. The company posted earnings Tuesday that were in line with expectations, and it also impressed analysts with more subscribers than expected for its new streaming service, Disney+. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-24T09:49:17Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/24/business/disneyland-china-wuhan-virus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Disney closes Shanghai park as deadly coronavirus spreads - CNN
description : Disney is closing down its Shanghai resort over the lucrative Lunar New Year holiday, amid growing fears over the deadly Wuhan coronavirus. 
keywords : business, Disney closes Shanghai park as deadly coronavirus spreads - CNN
content: Shanghai Disney Resort made the announcement on its official website on Friday, saying the closure was "in response to the prevention and control of the disease outbreak." The resort said it will refund guests for admission fees, hotel bookings and other pre-purchased entertainment tickets. It did not say when the park would reopen. The disease, which originated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, has already left dozens of people dead and more than 800 infected as it spreads throughout Asia and as far as the United States. At least 10 cities in central Hubei province are facing travel restrictions, including Wuhan. Major cities including Beijing have canceled some or all major Lunar New Year celebrations — a rare, drastic step to reign in the spread of the virus.Disney (DIS) opened its $5.5 billion Shanghai resort in 2016 with much fanfare, including speeches from top Chinese officials.But the mega theme park has struggled to win over China's cost-conscious consumers, and there have reportedly been several complaints about its ticketing policy and food and beverage prices.Disney said in November that the Shanghai resort saw an uptick in revenue in its fiscal fourth quarter, but higher average ticket prices resulted in "lower attendance" compared to the same period a year earlier.The closure comes less than two weeks after Shanghai Disney Resort unveiled a series of events tailored for China's Year of the Rat. The park had completed a "festive makeover" to usher in what it called the "Year of the Mouse." It launched new holiday festivities, new merchandise, Lunar New Year dining options and made new outfits for Mickey, Minnie and other Disney mascots.Other popular tourist attractions, such as the Forbidden City in Beijing, have been shut down in China due to concerns over the Wuhan virus.  More entertainment venues will also feel the hit as people stay indoors and avoid crowded areas. China's National Center for the Performing Arts announced on Friday that all performances scheduled between Jan 26th to 30th were canceled. Other  venues followed. Beijing People's Art Theater said it would close on the 24th and did not give a date when it would reopen. Nanjing Jiangsu Theater canceled 9 performances. Chinese state news agency Xinhua reported on Thursday that blockbuster movies that were set to release during China's lucrative Lunar New Year holiday have been pulled.Producers and distributors canceled or postponed all seven Chinese movies — many of them big franchise series films — that were due to hit theaters this weekend, citing the lack of ventilation in movie theaters and the highly contagious nature of the coronavirus. Ticketing platforms, such as Maoyan, Damai, and Taopiaopiao, said they will refund all tickets that had been pre-purchased by customers.Leading cinema chain brands, including Jinyi, CGV, Bona, announced before Lunar New Year's eve that they would be shutting down during the peak holiday season in response to the coronavirus outbreak. Wanda Cinema, China's largest film distributor with over 500 cinemas across the country, said it would refund tickets for those who chose not to go the movies.The holiday is a big draw for moviegoers. Last year, China's Lunar New Year box office pulled in more than 5 billion yuan ($720.8 million), according to Xinhua.— Yuli Yang and Hannah Zhang contributed to this report. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-24T02:02:41Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/23/business/coronavirus-carmakers-luxury/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Global carmaker and luxury brands hit as coronavirus shuts down Wuhan - CNN
description : Global carmakers and luxury goods firms are facing a hit to their business in China due to disruption caused by the spread of a deadly virus that could drag down an already slowing economy. 
keywords : business, Global carmaker and luxury brands hit as coronavirus shuts down Wuhan - CNN
content: Wuhan is one of China's "motor cities," home to numerous auto plants supplying the world's largest market for cars.General Motors (GM), Nissan (NSANF), Renault (RNLSY),  Honda (HMC) and Peugeot owner PSA Group (PUGOY) are among several companies that have large manufacturing plants in Wuhan — ground zero of the coronavirus outbreak that has already claimed dozens of lives.  All of the Western automakers operate the plants through joint ventures with Chinese automakers, including GM's partner SAIC and Dongfeng Motor Corporation, one of the country's largest auto groups. The GM-SAIC plant in Wuhan has about 6,000 employees, about 10% of GM's total work force in China.The city of 11 million people, is under partial lockdown after its airport and railway stations were closed to departing passengers on Thursday as fear over the outbreak spread. All public transport services in the city have been suspended, and some of the main highways closed. At least 10 cities and almost 30 million people in China's central Hubei district are facing travel restrictions. Beijing and Shanghai are at the highest level of alert for a public health emergency.The transport disruptions could cause headaches for businesses, and hurt consumer spending at a time when carmakers are already struggling with falling sales. The global auto industry is in a deep recession, which shows few signs of abating. The number of cars sold in China, the world's largest market, fell by 2.3 million in 2019, according to LMC Automotive. Chinese officials have said sales could fall again this year. Virus-related shutdowns are expected to hit spending over the upcoming Lunar New Year holiday, when consumers typically spend more on travel, entertainment and gifts, ratings agency S&P Global said Thursday. If spending on services such as transport and entertainment fell by 10%, China's overall economic growth would contract by about 1.2 percentage points, it added. Carmakers in WuhanFrench carmaker Renault sold nearly 180,000 vehicles in China last year, or about 5% of its global car sales. It manufactures its flagship SUVs — the Kadjar and Koleos 2 models — at the Wuhan plant.In 2018, Renault produced 16,459 Kadjars and 31,299 Koleos in Wuhan to cater to the needs of the Chinese market, spokesperson Rié Yamane told CNN Business. Sales figures for 2019 will be available in March, she added.According to Renault's website, the Wuhan factory has a workforce of 2,000 and annual capacity of 300,000 vehicles.Renault's shares were trading 1% weaker in Paris on Friday, extending the stock's losses for the week to 7%. Shares in the company have dropped nearly 14% so far this year amid continued fallout from the scandal surrounding former chairman Carlos Ghosn. PSA Group sells its Peugeot and Citroën brands in China. Last year, the company sold about 117,000 vehicles in the country, a 55% decline on the previous year. A company spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment on the size of its operations in Wuhan, but said that the firm is "applying the recommendation of Chinese authorities."Honda's Wuhan joint venture contributed about 11% to the group's revenue for the year to March 2019 and accounted for the majority of its Asian automobile revenue, financial statements show. The company opened a third plant in Wuhan in April, according to a press release.Given the upcoming Lunar New Year, companies may not feel the effect of the lockdown for a while. Renault and Honda said their Wuhan plants were already closed for the holidays. A spokesperson for Honda said its plant was closed from Thursday until February 2."We are studying carefully the issue internally through the different departments and China," Renault's Yamane said. "We are of course respecting the Chinese authorities' regulations," she added. GM says it is staying abreast of the development and advising employees who are not feeling well to not come to work."The most important thing is to contain the virus -  production is secondary to the health of the team and community," said GM spokesman Jim Cain.Luxury firms falter Shares in luxury goods companies, which usually benefit from increased consumer spending over the Chinese New Year, have also taken a hit this week, although they recovered a little on Friday.LVMH (LVMHF), which owns Louis Vuitton and Fendi, has fallen 4.5% since Monday. Gucci and Balenciaga parent Kering (PPRUF) is down 5%, while Richemont, the maker of Cartier watches, has dropped 6%. These companies are "bracing themselves for a potential hit to their sales," said David Perrotta, the UK head of international payments provider, Planet.Travel restrictions could have a "significant impact on sales during this crucial two-week spending period" when "luxury retailers would typically be expecting a windfall in sales to Chinese shoppers," he added.In 2018, Chinese consumers at home and abroad spent 770 billion yuan ($115 billion) on luxury items, equivalent to a third of the global spend, according to McKinsey. The management consulting firm expects Chinese consumers to account for 40% of the world's spending on luxury goods by 2025.Kering and Richemont declined to comment. LVMH did not respond to a request for comment. — Charles Riley, James Griffiths and Steve George Kate Trafecante, Vanessa Yurkevich and Chris Isidore contributed reporting.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-20T09:28:39Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/20/business/global-auto-recession/index.html
author: Analysis by Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: The recession in global car sales shows no sign of ending - CNN
description : The global auto industry plunged deeper into recession in 2019, with sales dropping more than 4% as carmakers struggled to find buyers in China and India. The pain is likely to continue this year. 
keywords : business, The recession in global car sales shows no sign of ending - CNN
content: The number of vehicles sold across major global markets dipped to 90.3 million last year, according to analysts at LMC Automotive. That's down from 94.4 million in 2018, and well below the record 95.2 million cars sold in 2017.The slump has upended an industry that is grappling with the huge challenge of ditching the internal combustion engine to tackle the climate crisis. Some experts have even begun to speculate that the world may have reached "peak car," or the point at which global demand for vehicles begins an inexorable decline. Recession comes with big ramifications for the global economy. According to the International Monetary Fund, the car industry accounts for 5.7% of economic output and 8% of goods exports. It is the second largest consumer of steel and aluminum. The biggest blow to carmakers last year came in China, the world's largest market for vehicles, where a sharp slowdown in economic growth and the elimination of tax incentives for electric car purchases caused demand to plummet. The number of vehicles sold dropped 2.3 million from 2018, said LMC. In India, another huge market where carmakers had invested heavily, consumers held off on big purchases because of a credit crunch and a weakening economy. Conditions were also tough in Europe, where Brexit and Volkswagen's (VLKAF) diesel emissions crisis continued to scare off potential buyers and force executives to review investments.The pressure has sparked a wave of partnerships across the industry. Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) is merging with Peugeot owner PSA Group (PUGOY) and Volkswagen (VLKAF) has teamed up with Ford to develop electric cars. German rivals Daimler (DDAIF) and BMW (BMWYY) have joined forces to develop ride sharing and driverless technology.Yet the outlook for 2020 isn't much brighter. China's industry minister Miao Wei said Monday that this year and next would be "critical" for the car market and that vehicle sales in the country could be flat "or slightly negative" in 2020.LMC expects global sales to fall below 90 million, down 0.3% on the previous year. "There is unlikely to be any real support to the global total from the mature markets like western Europe and the United States," said Jonathon Poskitt, director of global sales forecasts at LMC.The big question is when — or even whether — the auto industry will return to growth. Poskitt said the vehicle sales record hit in 2017 is unlikely to be surpassed in the next few years, in part because of reduced demand in wealthy cities that are struggling with traffic congestion and increased pollution. In those urban areas, potential buyers might be more likely to use car sharing programs or public transportation. But LMC forecasts that demand in less developed areas will eventually result in new global sales records, starting in 2023."Many markets in the world are not yet at what we would consider to be mature levels, and as income grows so does the affordability of vehicle ownership," said Poskitt. "Considering the low levels of car density in China and India alone, there remains the potential for solid market expansion as some of the more immediate headwinds ease."Yet there is considerable uncertainty over how the transition from cars powered by diesel and gasoline to vehicles that run on electricity will affect sales, to say nothing of the possibility that individual car ownership will gradually be replaced by fleets of autonomous cars providing rides on demand. Among the immediate challenges facing global carmakers: Electric vehicles cost significantly more than conventional models, require fewer workers to assemble and rely on dramatically shorter supply chains. And in Europe at least, those supply chains face serious disruption from Brexit."Automakers are facing challenges that mean they will have to make changes to business models above and beyond those required by technological reconfiguration," the IMF said in its October World Economic Outlook.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-13T09:12:17Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/13/business/china-car-sales/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: China's car sales fell 8% in 2019 and the slump is entering its third year - CNN
description : China's car sales are stuck in a major slump that shows little sign of ending as the country's massive economy slows. 
keywords : business, China's car sales fell 8% in 2019 and the slump is entering its third year - CNN
content: The country's car market shrank for the second year in a row last year, according to data released by the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers on Monday.The national auto industry body said total car sales fell 8.2% to just under 25.8 million in 2019, after having slid nearly 3% in 2018 in the first contraction since the 1990s. December car sales in China dipped 0.1%, according to the data, marking 18 straight months of declines.  The sales crisis was exacerbated last year by weak economic growth, the trade war with the United States and tough new emission standards introduced in the summer. A reluctance by consumers to make big ticket purchases in an uncertain environment was partly to blame, but a government campaign against deadly levels of pollution also had an impact.Next year looks a little bit better, but sales are still expected to decline 2%, the industry group projected last month. Analysts and carmakers are bracing for more pain. For China's car market, "2020 will be critical as automakers deal with lower subsidies [or] grants, tougher enforcement of emission regulations, and disruptions from technology adoption," analysts from brokerage firm Jefferies wrote in a report last week.  The slump is hitting global carmakers particularly hard.  Ford (F) said on Monday that its sales plunged 26% last year in China to 567,854 units, and warned of tough times ahead. "The pressure from the external environment and downward trend of the industry volume will continue in 2020," Anning Chen, president and CEO of Ford Greater China, said in a press statement. Rival GM (GM) reported last week that it sold 3.09 million cars in China last year, down 15% from 2018. Like Ford, it also had a bearish outlook for the new year.  "We expect the market downturn to continue in 2020, and anticipate ongoing headwinds in our China business," Matt Tsien, GM executive vice president and president of GM China, said in a statement. Sales of new energy vehicles, a category that includes electric and plug-in hybrid cars, also fell 4% to 1.21 million last year. China wants new energy vehicles to make up at least a fifth of the country's auto sales by 2025, but demand was limited by the slowing economy and Beijing's decision to slash subsidies for the vehicles in order to thin the country's overcrowded field of electric car makers. Several prominent players in new energy vehicles felt the squeeze. BYD (BYDDF), one of China's top electric vehicle makers, saw net profits plunge 89% in the third quarter. The Warren Buffett-backed company said in October that sales failed to meet expectations partly due to "the considerable reduction" in subsidies.In December, embattled electric car maker Nio (NIO) reported improving car sales and revenue, but noted the industry suffered "substantial softness in the second half of 2019 after the reduction of [electric vehicle] subsidies in China." The company, which was once dubbed China's answer to Tesla, is also still facing major challenges including a massive cash crunch and an oversaturated market. Despite the headwinds, Tesla (TSLA) is betting big on China's electric car market. The company opened a new Shanghai factory last year to grow its business, pump out more cars and better target Chinese customers. Tesla started delivering Shanghai-made Model 3s to the Chinese public last week, with CEO Elon Musk on hand to give keys to new owners and celebrate the occasion with an impromptu dance on stage. -- Laura He and Michelle Toh contributed to this report. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-19T08:02:49Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/19/business/davos-wef-2020/index.html
author: Hadas Gold, CNN Business
headline: Davos 2020: Donald Trump, Greta Thunberg and a climate in crisis - CNN
description : US President Donald Trump and environmental activist Greta Thunberg are getting top billing at Davos this year as the conference for global elites turns its attention to the climate crisis and sustainability.
keywords : business, Davos 2020: Donald Trump, Greta Thunberg and a climate in crisis - CNN
content: The World Economic Forum's 50th annual meeting begins Monday, drawing 3,000 of the world's richest and most powerful people to a picturesque skiing village in the Swiss mountains. Trump will deliver what the organizers describe as a special address on Tuesday, offering his brand of populism to attendees who represent governments, companies, central banks and transnational organizations.Two hours later, Thunberg — Time Magazine's Person of the Year — will open a debate on how to avert a "climate apocalypse." The headliners have clashed on social media and may steer clear of each other in Davos. But attendees won't be able to avoid climate change given the theme of the meeting is "Stakeholders for a Cohesive and Sustainable World." The World Economic Forum (WEF) is asking all companies present to commit to net zero carbon emissions by 2050.Among the highlights: Britain's Prince Charles will deliver a special address Wednesday on "how to save the planet."Trump, who is aggressively rolling back environmental protections and pulling the United States out of the Paris climate agreement, may well be challenged over his view on climate change.Who attends, and how?About 3,000 of the people who flock to Davos are official conference participants.Tickets are invite-only and very pricey for businesses. Membership of the WEF costs anywhere from $60,000 to hundreds of thousands of dollars, and there's an additional fee of around $27,000 to get into the conference. Davos also plays host to thousands of journalists, security personnel, corporate support staffers, as well as businesspeople and chancers, many of whom never step foot in the official conference rooms.Some instead spend the week attending parallel discussions, panels, corporate events and parties. Many take advantage of the fact that so many elites are gathered in one place by jamming their schedules full of meetings.What do they do all week?The official conference schedule is filled with dozens of speeches, debates, performances and events. This year, many are focused on the issue of sustainability. "People are revolting against the economic 'elites' they believe have betrayed them, and our efforts to keep global warming limited to 1.5°C are falling dangerously short," WEF founder Klaus Schwab said in a statement. "With the world at such a critical crossroads, this year we must develop a 'Davos Manifesto 2020' to reimagine the purpose and scorecards for companies and governments," he added.Beyond the headliners, attendees can choose to attend panels featuring US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam and Goldman Sachs (GS) CEO David Solomon.Also roaming the hallways and attending exclusive dinners are hundreds of high level executives and political figures such as Facebook (FB) COO Sheryl Sandberg, German chancellor Angela Merkel, and Salesforce (CRM) CEO Marc Benioff. The roster of attendees often reflects the global political and business mood. President Trump attended in 2018, but skipped last year because of the US government shutdown. Brexit, protests in France and a slowing Chinese economy also contributed to a shortage of global leaders in 2019. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson reportedly instructed officials to stay away this year with Brexit due January 31, but finance minister Sajid Javid will be going.The criticsThe conference has fierce critics, some of whom argue the gathering of elites has done little to improve the world. Others take issue with its environmental footprint.Many attendees are ferried from event to event in luxury cars, which clog up the small town. To help reduce the environmental impact, the WEF says its fleet is now 88% electric or hybrid.Then there are the hundreds of private jet trips. The WEF estimates that there were as many as 309 trips last year by private planes to two nearby airports for the conference. That excludes trips by presidents and prime ministers who tend to land at a nearby military base.The conference also touts promises to buy carbon credits offsetting flights, a redesigned conference center and a menu packed with locally-sourced food. In 2020, it's vowed to become "more sustainable than ever."
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-14T17:15:35Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/14/business/private-jets-davos-climate/index.html
author: Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: Davos VIPs are worried about the climate crisis. They're still using private jets - CNN
description : The World Economic Forum is preparing to perform a difficult dance: proclaim its growing concern for the climate crisis even as scores of private planes and luxury cars ferry attendees to its annual conference in Davos.
keywords : business, Davos VIPs are worried about the climate crisis. They're still using private jets - CNN
content: In an era of "flight shaming" and increased public awareness over climate change, the organizers of next week's event are ratcheting up efforts to reduce the environmental impact of the conference, which draws politicians and CEOs to the Swiss Alps for panel discussions, closed-door meetings and parties. Greta Thunberg, the teenage climate activist known for calling out global leaders, is attending for a second year after she criticized guests at a star-studded luncheon in 2019. WEF is touting promises to buy carbon credits offsetting flights, a redesigned conference center and a menu packed with locally-sourced food. The fleet of vehicles that will shuttle many dignitaries around the ski resort town is now 88% electric or hybrid.It's a mark of mounting pressure on the organization, which has long faced blowback for the environmental footprint of the summit. For some high-profile figures who plan to attend, such as BlackRock CEO Larry Fink, fighting climate change is now an urgent priority. The theme of this year's meeting is "Stakeholders for a Cohesive and Sustainable World."Still, the group's actions are unlikely to insulate it from critics, who argue that the forum and its attendees are more worried about optics than pursuing systemic change.WEF acknowledges that because it "brings together stakeholders to help address the greatest ecological crisis of our time," it eats up resources and causes emissions. In 2020, it's vowed to become "more sustainable than ever.""The Forum is committed to improving the state of the world and this is why sustainability of our 50th Annual Meeting takes on the utmost importance," Lee Howell, managing director at the World Economic Forum, said in a statement.Yet ensuring a sustainable conference is no simple task — in large part because of the sheer number of flights required to bring in nearly 3,000 delegates from around the world, to say nothing of their entourages, conference staffers, security personnel and the global media. Scientists have estimated that roughly 5% of global warming is the result of commercial aviation. Planes spew out carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, as well as nitrous oxides, which produce the greenhouse gas ozone. Contrails, ice particles produced by planes that trap radiation, also contribute to global warming.The issue has led to a strengthening "flight shaming" movement in Europe, known in Thunberg's native Swedish as "flygskam." Thunberg, who recently sailed across the Atlantic to attend a UN climate summit, traveled to Davos last year by train, a much cleaner form of transport.WEF notes that it has offset all flights for accredited attendees to its conference since 2017 by purchasing carbon credits that fund emissions-reducing projects. This year, credits purchased to offset conference emissions will support projects that aim to protect the Amazon from deforestation and convert methane from cow manure in Switzerland into energy.But Lucy Gilliam, aviation and shipping specialist at Transport & Environment, a European nonprofit that lobbies for clean transport, said there are drawbacks to offset programs, which need to be maintained over time and can take a while to kick in."You're not actually removing the emissions that have been created by that plane," she said. "The plane will have burned that fuel, and the carbon has been released into the atmosphere."The particular rub at Davos, Gilliam said, is that many participating government ministers and top corporate executives opt to take private planes, which produce more emissions per person than commercial flights.WEF estimates that there were as many as 309 trips last year by private planes to two nearby airports for the conference. That number, which excludes the presidents and prime ministers that tend to land at a nearby military base, was 20% lower than in 2018.Eymeric Segard, the CEO of LunaJets, says he's responding to the "flight shaming" movement. His Geneva-based company is pushing clients who want to book a private jet for Davos to opt for smaller, more fuel-efficient planes.LunaJets is also pledging to offset all trips it books by purchasing carbon credits. That means some trips to the conference could be offset twice — both by LunaJets and WEF."[It's a] very niche clientele that go to Davos," he said. "When they come from Africa, Asia, the US and India, a train is simply not an option." Armed with a webpage outlining its sustainability measures, WEF is prepared for questions.The group said that last year it had offset 35,000 tons of emissions, funding not only efficient cooking stoves in China, Mali, India and South Africa, but also restoring peatlands in the area that hosts the annual meeting.In addition to paying to offset all emissions, WEF has refurbished the main conference center where it holds events, installing solar panels and geothermal heating. Paint derived from seaweed has been used to freshen up some rooms. Carpeting on stages will come from renewable sources including "end-of life fishing nets."WEF is also eliminating single-use plastics for bags and drinks. "Future Food Wednesday" will feature "a menu that is rich in protein but meat- and fish-free." And Swiss artificial intelligence company Kitro's technology will be used to monitor food waste.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-13T17:04:08Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/13/business/siemens-australia-mine-climate-crisis/index.html
author: Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Siemens is giving young people the chance to veto projects that hurt the climate - CNN
description : Siemens is inviting young people to join a company committee that will have the power to veto projects on environmental grounds, despite confirming it will continue to participate in a controversial coal mining project in fire-ravaged Australia.
keywords : business, Siemens is giving young people the chance to veto projects that hurt the climate - CNN
content: In an open letter dated Sunday, CEO Joe Kaeser said the German engineering group would establish a new committee that includes young people from outside the company to "give environmental concerns even more priority and attention in the future." The committee will be able to block projects for "sustainability" reasons. Protesters have targeted Siemens' offices in Germany in recent days over its role in a coal mining project led by Indian billionaire Gautam Adani. The mine is expected to produce 10 million tonnes of coal each year for export to India, increasing CO2 emissions that activists warn will exacerbate the climate crisis and fuel fires similar to those devastating parts of Australia.On Saturday, teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg called for Siemens (SIEGY) to make the "only right decision" and abandon its contract to provide signaling equipment for the railway that will transport coal from the mine to the Australian coast.Siemens is one of the world's biggest engineering companies, employing 379,000 people in business operations all over the globe. Kaeser wrote in his letter that he was concerned by the fires and expressed sympathy for people who have lost family members or their homes, but the chief executive said there was "practically no legally and economically responsible way to unwind the contract without neglecting fiduciary duties." That means he felt he couldn't ditch the Australian contract while fulfilling his obligation to protect the company from financial losses.Instead, Siemens said it would establish a sustainability committee that has "the power to stop and escalate projects of critical nature to sustainability, no matter whether we are directly or indirectly participating.""I will also open the doors to the youth, and the concerns young people have taken to the streets around the world, to sit at the table," wrote Kaeser. A spokesperson for Siemens said the goal was to "prevent cases" like the Australian mine from happening again but he was unable to provide more specifics on when the committee would be formed, or how it would function.Who is Joe Kaeser?Siemens appears to have been caught off guard by the mine controversy, with Kaeser saying in his open letter that he had not been aware of the contract to provide signaling equipment.It's a rare misstep for a CEO who has emerged in recent years as one of the few corporate leaders willing to speak out on political controversies. Last year, the German executive said that President Donald Trump was becoming a symbol of intolerance following his attacks on four female members of Congress.Siemens denounced xenophobia in a letter to its employees in the German state of Saxony in 2018 after anti-immigration protesters there were photographed giving the outlawed Nazi salute. Earlier in the year, Kaeser sharply criticized a right-wing German lawmaker, saying that nationalism would harm the country's prosperity.Kaeser also took a public stand when he pulled out of Saudi Arabia's Future Investment Initiative following the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, Turkey."As soon as I heard of his death, it was clear to me that we couldn't simply move on and do business as usual," Kaeser said in October 2018.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-15T14:54:30Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/15/business/global-risks-2020-davos/index.html
author: Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Davos 2020: American politics is the biggest risk facing the world right now, say experts - CNN
description : American politics is the biggest threat facing the world in 2020 and the looming presidential election will stress the country's institutions, influence economic and foreign policy and further divide an already polarized electorate, with potentially huge consequences for the climate, business and investors. 
keywords : business, Davos 2020: American politics is the biggest risk facing the world right now, say experts - CNN
content: That's the view of experts at consultancies Eurasia Group and Control Risks. The World Economic Forum, which is preparing to hold its annual meeting of political leaders and CEOs next week in Davos, is also warning of increased turbulence this year from trade conflicts and political polarization that makes it harder to tackle global challenges.Control Risks says that President Donald Trump's campaign for a second term will drive decision-making in foreign policy, increasing the chance that investors will be caught off guard by populist moves favoring US factory workers or farmers. "The campaign will focus foreign policy on managing crises, distracting US attention from non-urgent issues and geographies. Trump's thirst for deliverable 'wins' before the election, meanwhile, will amplify foreign leverage in trade and security relations," Control Risks wrote in a recent report. Eurasia Group, which has designated US politics as the top risk for the first time in its annual assessment of the state of the world, warns that the election will be the most divisive in over a century, with the outcome likely to be viewed as illegitimate by roughly half the population. The analysts expect the result to be contested, no matter which candidate triumphs."The 2020 election is an American Brexit — a maximally polarized vote where the risk is less the outcome than the political uncertainty of what the people voted for," Eurasia Group says in its report. "It's uncharted political territory, and this time in a country where uncertainty creates shock waves abroad."In preparing its report ahead of the Davos meeting, the World Economic Forum surveyed 750 global experts and decision makers who named economic confrontations and national political polarization as the top risks in 2020.Taken together, the reports depict a world facing thorny problems with few obvious solutions. Increasingly fractious politics in developed countries is undermining the rules that have underpinned trade and globalization for decades, giving elected leaders license to act unilaterally and stoking conflicts such as the trade war between the United States and China.US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who will attend the Davos meeting, rejected the idea that the upheaval in American politics is a threat."I don't think it has any impact on the world economy," Mnuchin told reporters on Wednesday, adding that other political issues such as Britain's departure from the European Union and last year's deadlocked elections in Israel were similarly inconsequential. Other huge headaches haven't gone away. The people paid to identify threats to global peace and prosperity are also worried about the climate crisis, the battle between Washington and Beijing over the future of technology, geopolitical aggression on the part of Russia and continued armed conflict in the Middle East.A decade ago, most risk analysts were worried about financial issues such as asset bubbles, according to John Drzik, a contributor to the World Economic Forum report and chairman at research firm Marsh & McLennan Insights. Those worries have been replaced by new, more complicated challenges that are often linked."In 2020, we have a combination of negative trend lines that we've not experienced in generations. This deteriorating environment is much more likely to produce a global crisis," warned analysts at Eurasia Group. The world has already been confronted with two major flashpoints this year. The killing of top Iranian general Qasem Soleimani on Trump's orders brought the two countries to the brink of war, endangering oil supplies from the Middle East and leading Tehran to accelerate its uranium enrichment, a move that could put Iran on a path to constructing a nuclear weapon. Tensions cooled after US troops avoided casualties in an Iranian reprisal attack on bases in Iraq and Trump dialed down his rhetoric. Analysts think that Iran, which has severe economic problems and a restive population at home, will now seek to avoid open conflict with the United States while opportunistically striking back against American interests. "Iran will continue to disrupt tanker traffic in the Gulf. Tehran also has a penchant for hitting adversaries in unpredictable, asymmetric ways, including through its robust offensive cyber capabilities and proxy network across the region with the capacity to target the citizens and assets of the United States and its allies," assessed the Eurasia Group. Climate in crisisAnd the devastating bush fires in Australia have underscored why concerns about the climate dominate in the longer run. According to the World Economic Forum survey, the top five risks over the next decade all relate to the environment, including increased extreme weather events and the collapse of ecosystems."The near-term impacts of climate change add up to a planetary emergency that will include loss of life, social and geopolitical tensions and negative economic impacts," the group warns in a report discussing its survey.Drzik said that climate change dominates the top of the longer range ranking because experts and investors are getting better at understanding and measuring the risks involved. And they are also recognizing that while climate change will put some companies out of business, it also means new opportunities.One example: BlackRock (BLK) CEO Larry Fink, who controls $7 trillion in investments, said on Tuesday that the asset manager will ditch investments that it considers a sustainability risk.— Joe Johns contributed reporting from Washington.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-08T11:58:51Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/08/business/munich-re-climate-change-natural-disasters/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Climate change: Natural catastrophes cost $150 billion in 2019 - CNN
description : Hurricanes, wildfires and floods cost the world $150 billion in 2019 and losses for business and the economy are only expected to increase, because of a decade-long rise in natural catastrophes with direct links to climate change.
keywords : business, Climate change: Natural catastrophes cost $150 billion in 2019 - CNN
content: Munich Re, one of the world's largest reinsurance companies, said Wednesday that it expects to see an increase in the frequency and intensity of weather-related disasters in certain parts of the world. Reinsurance companies sell cover to insurers to protect them from very large losses."We expect 2020 to be part of this trend towards increasing losses from weather-related disasters, a trend that we have been observing over the last decade," Ernst Rauch, Munich Re's chief climatologist, told CNN Business. Climate change is contributing to the increase in extreme weather events, said Rauch.Munich Re, which has been studying climate change since the 1970s, has observed an increase in severe thunderstorms in North America and Europe. The storms are at times accompanied by hail, tornadoes and flooding, and their frequency can most likely only be explained by climate change, Rauch added.In Australia, a prolonged period of extremely dry and unusually hot weather has added to the severity of bushfires in the country and can likely be attributed to global warming, he said."What climate change does is change probabilities, so if we see an increasing probability of large losses from wildfires that indicates that climate change is contributing," added Rauch.Losses from Australian wildfires have increased over the past four decades, Rauch said.The Insurance Council of Australia said in a statement Tuesday that insurance losses from bush fires this season stood at $700 million Australian dollars ($481 million). Insurers have received nearly 9,000 claims since September and "many more" are expected to be lodged in coming days and weeks, the Insurance Council said. At least 26 people have died in the fires, according to Australian police. Japan typhoons There were 820 natural catastrophes in 2019, slightly below the previous year but well above the long-term average of 520, according to Munich Re. In 2018, losses from natural disasters amounted to $186 billion.Japan's typhoons Hagibis and Faxai together accounted for the largest overall losses ($26 billion) last year, followed by Typhoon Lekima, and floods in India and China. Natural disasters cost the insurance industry $52 billion in 2019, below the previous year but above the 30-year average. This is partly due to lower cover for flood losses in developed countries, Rauch said.Disasters such as Mozambique's Cyclone Idai — which caused $2.3 billion in losses and more than 1,000 deaths — were almost completely uninsured, he said.More people are taking out cover for natural catastrophes in rich countries, but insurance penetration has barely increased in the developing world, Rauch said.An increase in losses from weather-related disasters will cause premiums to rise and make it more expensive for business and property owners to buy insurance, he said. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-15T18:16:22Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/15/business/trade-risks-2020/index.html
author: Analysis by Jill Disis and Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: A world trade war is brewing. The US-China deal doesn't stop it  - CNN
description : The United States has signed a partial trade agreement with China. But that doesn't mean simmering conflicts and uncertainty over trade won't drag down the global economy this year.
keywords : business, A world trade war is brewing. The US-China deal doesn't stop it  - CNN
content: Tensions between the world's two biggest economies are likely to persist in 2020 as Beijing and Washington enter a second round of trade talks that are expected to be more difficult than the "phase one" process that culminated in a deal Wednesday in Washington.The European Union is also locked in its own trade dispute with the United States that has strained ties between the preeminent western powers. And the United Kingdom's looming break with Europe brings with it a slew of challenges as the country attempts to forge a new relationship with its largest export market.Reaching past the 'low-hanging fruit'President Donald Trump has heralded the "phase one" US-China trade deal as a significant breakthrough. US officials said the agreement will reduce some tariffs and allow Beijing to avoid additional taxes on almost $160 billion of the country's goods. The Trump administration also said it received commitments from China to purchase billions worth of agricultural goods and crack down on intellectual property theft. "Are we in an ideal spot? No," Robert Lighthizer, the president's top trade negotiator, told reporters before the signing. "Is this a massively good first step? Yes."But more specific details about the text of the agreement have been elusive. Economists, market analysts and trade experts also remain wary about whether the two countries can make serious headway on more substantial issues, such as Washington's demand that the Chinese government significantly reduce its role in the country's economy. "The deal as outlined harvests all the low-hanging fruit," analysts at Capital Economics wrote in a research note last month. The initial deal "does not mark the end of tensions between the US and China," they added.The two sides are keeping substantial tariffs in place.  About two-thirds of all US imports from China — roughly $370 billion worth — will still be covered by tariffs after the deal is signed, according to a December analysis from the Peterson Institute for International Economics. More than half of US exports to China would also still be subject to retaliatory tariffs, the institute said. "Steep tariffs are the new normal," wrote Chad Brown, a senior fellow at the institute and former economist at the World Bank.Others have cited "more troublesome" issues on the horizon. Speaking at an event in Hong Kong this week, former Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen warned that competition between the United States and China could slow the development of artificial intelligence, 5G mobile networks and other technology related to national security.China and the United States are already locked in a fight over Chinese tech company Huawei, a leading global provider of telecoms equipment used to build 5G networks. The rift between the United States and China has other implications for the global economy. "The world is edging towards distinct economic spheres centered on the US and China," Mark Williams, chief Asia economist at Capital Economics, wrote last October. While he noted that geopolitical rivalries can be productive — think of the space race between the United States and the Soviet Union — he said it is more likely that "limits to flows of people, technology and ideas" hold back global productivity.Tensions with EuropeChina isn't the only world power tangling with the United States over trade. The Trump administration is weighing whether to impose tariffs on $2.4 billion in French products — including cheeses, handbags and champagne — to punish the country for its new tax on digital services.The United States has argued that France's tax, which affects large American tech firms such as Facebook (FB) and Google (GOOGL), represents a barrier to trade. The European Union, which manages trade policy on behalf of its member states, has threatened to respond if provoked.New tariffs would escalate an already tense relationship between Washington and Brussels. The Trump administration imposed a 25% tariff on most European wine in October, in retaliation for government subsidies received by planemaker Airbus (EADSF). Since then, the White House has threatened to raise the tax because of a lack of progress in resolving the issue.Washington had also already imposed taxes on steel and aluminum made in the European Union and threatened higher tariffs on German cars despite substantial investments made in the United States by BMW (BMWYY), Volkswagen (VLKAF) and Daimler (DDAIF).An agreement that addresses these issues with Europe will be one of Trump's priorities for 2020, according to William Reinsch, an expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who served for 15 years as president of the National Foreign Trade Council. It's an immensely important relationship for both sides to maintain. Trade between the United States and the European Union is worth more than $1.1 trillion a year — the largest bilateral relationship anywhere in the world.Yet a deal is likely to prove elusive. Reinsch pointed out in a recent blog post that talks may not even get off the ground because of a disagreement over whether agriculture — a highly subsidized and protected industry in Europe — should be included in negotiations. Even if discussions begin, Reinsch argued they could be derailed by a number of threats including higher auto tariffs, which will resurface "the first time the president loses patience with the slow pace of talks."He added that if progress is made, "the president's desire for a 'victory' he can brag about before the election will take precedence over substance ... and hollow victories will be declared."Brokering a Brexit deal?With Brexit set for January 31, the United Kingdom is also seeking a trade deal with the European Union.This one must be completed before the end of the year or trade barriers will be erected between the country and its biggest export market.Most trade deals take years to negotiate, but Prime Minister Boris Johnson has insisted that he will not extend talks beyond the end of the year. That could hurt the United Kingdom's chances of striking a comprehensive agreement. "If the government is to stick to the timetable at all costs then only a very limited deal ... is likely to be possible," said analysts at French bank Société Générale. "This will mean sacrificing the possibility of a good deal for services on the altar of political expediency."Johnson has to strike a delicate balance. While the United Kingdom does a lot of business with the European Union — the market accounted for 44% of total UK exports of goods and services in 2017 — staying close to Brussels would limit its ability to reach a new trade deal with the United States. Johnson's supporters have touted that as a major potential benefit of Brexit.Even so, new trade barriers are something the UK economy cannot afford. Experts have warned that such restrictions would limit economic growth and put the country's auto industry at risk of collapse.Data published Monday showed a steep decline in Britain's GDP in November, suggesting the country's economy stagnated or contracted in the fourth quarter. The Bank of England may now resort to an interest rate cut in order to support growth.Uncertainty over the United Kingdom's future trading relationships is likely to restrain GDP growth and the strength of the pound this year, according to Paul Dales, chief UK economist at Capital Economics. — Ivana Kottasová, Katie Lobosco and Donna Borak contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-15T18:16:22Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/15/business/trade-risks-2020/index.html
author: Analysis by Jill Disis and Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: A world trade war is brewing. The US-China deal doesn't stop it  - CNN
description : The United States has signed a partial trade agreement with China. But that doesn't mean simmering conflicts and uncertainty over trade won't drag down the global economy this year.
keywords : business, A world trade war is brewing. The US-China deal doesn't stop it  - CNN
content: Tensions between the world's two biggest economies are likely to persist in 2020 as Beijing and Washington enter a second round of trade talks that are expected to be more difficult than the "phase one" process that culminated in a deal Wednesday in Washington.The European Union is also locked in its own trade dispute with the United States that has strained ties between the preeminent western powers. And the United Kingdom's looming break with Europe brings with it a slew of challenges as the country attempts to forge a new relationship with its largest export market.Reaching past the 'low-hanging fruit'President Donald Trump has heralded the "phase one" US-China trade deal as a significant breakthrough. US officials said the agreement will reduce some tariffs and allow Beijing to avoid additional taxes on almost $160 billion of the country's goods. The Trump administration also said it received commitments from China to purchase billions worth of agricultural goods and crack down on intellectual property theft. "Are we in an ideal spot? No," Robert Lighthizer, the president's top trade negotiator, told reporters before the signing. "Is this a massively good first step? Yes."But more specific details about the text of the agreement have been elusive. Economists, market analysts and trade experts also remain wary about whether the two countries can make serious headway on more substantial issues, such as Washington's demand that the Chinese government significantly reduce its role in the country's economy. "The deal as outlined harvests all the low-hanging fruit," analysts at Capital Economics wrote in a research note last month. The initial deal "does not mark the end of tensions between the US and China," they added.The two sides are keeping substantial tariffs in place.  About two-thirds of all US imports from China — roughly $370 billion worth — will still be covered by tariffs after the deal is signed, according to a December analysis from the Peterson Institute for International Economics. More than half of US exports to China would also still be subject to retaliatory tariffs, the institute said. "Steep tariffs are the new normal," wrote Chad Brown, a senior fellow at the institute and former economist at the World Bank.Others have cited "more troublesome" issues on the horizon. Speaking at an event in Hong Kong this week, former Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen warned that competition between the United States and China could slow the development of artificial intelligence, 5G mobile networks and other technology related to national security.China and the United States are already locked in a fight over Chinese tech company Huawei, a leading global provider of telecoms equipment used to build 5G networks. The rift between the United States and China has other implications for the global economy. "The world is edging towards distinct economic spheres centered on the US and China," Mark Williams, chief Asia economist at Capital Economics, wrote last October. While he noted that geopolitical rivalries can be productive — think of the space race between the United States and the Soviet Union — he said it is more likely that "limits to flows of people, technology and ideas" hold back global productivity.Tensions with EuropeChina isn't the only world power tangling with the United States over trade. The Trump administration is weighing whether to impose tariffs on $2.4 billion in French products — including cheeses, handbags and champagne — to punish the country for its new tax on digital services.The United States has argued that France's tax, which affects large American tech firms such as Facebook (FB) and Google (GOOGL), represents a barrier to trade. The European Union, which manages trade policy on behalf of its member states, has threatened to respond if provoked.New tariffs would escalate an already tense relationship between Washington and Brussels. The Trump administration imposed a 25% tariff on most European wine in October, in retaliation for government subsidies received by planemaker Airbus (EADSF). Since then, the White House has threatened to raise the tax because of a lack of progress in resolving the issue.Washington had also already imposed taxes on steel and aluminum made in the European Union and threatened higher tariffs on German cars despite substantial investments made in the United States by BMW (BMWYY), Volkswagen (VLKAF) and Daimler (DDAIF).An agreement that addresses these issues with Europe will be one of Trump's priorities for 2020, according to William Reinsch, an expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who served for 15 years as president of the National Foreign Trade Council. It's an immensely important relationship for both sides to maintain. Trade between the United States and the European Union is worth more than $1.1 trillion a year — the largest bilateral relationship anywhere in the world.Yet a deal is likely to prove elusive. Reinsch pointed out in a recent blog post that talks may not even get off the ground because of a disagreement over whether agriculture — a highly subsidized and protected industry in Europe — should be included in negotiations. Even if discussions begin, Reinsch argued they could be derailed by a number of threats including higher auto tariffs, which will resurface "the first time the president loses patience with the slow pace of talks."He added that if progress is made, "the president's desire for a 'victory' he can brag about before the election will take precedence over substance ... and hollow victories will be declared."Brokering a Brexit deal?With Brexit set for January 31, the United Kingdom is also seeking a trade deal with the European Union.This one must be completed before the end of the year or trade barriers will be erected between the country and its biggest export market.Most trade deals take years to negotiate, but Prime Minister Boris Johnson has insisted that he will not extend talks beyond the end of the year. That could hurt the United Kingdom's chances of striking a comprehensive agreement. "If the government is to stick to the timetable at all costs then only a very limited deal ... is likely to be possible," said analysts at French bank Société Générale. "This will mean sacrificing the possibility of a good deal for services on the altar of political expediency."Johnson has to strike a delicate balance. While the United Kingdom does a lot of business with the European Union — the market accounted for 44% of total UK exports of goods and services in 2017 — staying close to Brussels would limit its ability to reach a new trade deal with the United States. Johnson's supporters have touted that as a major potential benefit of Brexit.Even so, new trade barriers are something the UK economy cannot afford. Experts have warned that such restrictions would limit economic growth and put the country's auto industry at risk of collapse.Data published Monday showed a steep decline in Britain's GDP in November, suggesting the country's economy stagnated or contracted in the fourth quarter. The Bank of England may now resort to an interest rate cut in order to support growth.Uncertainty over the United Kingdom's future trading relationships is likely to restrain GDP growth and the strength of the pound this year, according to Paul Dales, chief UK economist at Capital Economics. — Ivana Kottasová, Katie Lobosco and Donna Borak contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-16T15:52:33Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/16/business/nestle-recycled-plastics/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Nestle is investing $2 billion to cut plastic waste - CNN
description : Food companies trying to reduce their consumption of plastic have a big problem — it's hard to find suitable recycled material. Nestlé says it's willing to spend more than $2 billion to try and fix that. 
keywords : business, Nestle is investing $2 billion to cut plastic waste - CNN
content: The world's biggest food company said in a statement Thursday that it would cut costs in other parts of its business to free up more than 1.5 billion Swiss francs ($1.6 billion) to buy 2 million metric tons of recycled plastic between now and 2025.Nestlé said it would be paying above the market rate for the recycled material, part of its strategy to alleviate a shortage of used plastics suitable for food packaging by luring new suppliers into the business. Doing so should help the company meet its goal of reducing its use of virgin plastics by a third by 2025."Making recycled plastics safe for food is an enormous challenge for our industry," Mark Schneider, chief executive of Nestlé (NSRGF), said in a statement."That is why in addition to minimizing plastics use and collecting waste, we want to close the loop and make more plastics infinitely recyclable," he added.Sander Defruyt, the expert on plastics at the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, told CNN Business that food companies have a bigger challenge than other consumer firms when it comes to replacing plastic packaging. That often lends food producers to set lower targets for recycled content, said Defruyt.The Ellen MacArthur Foundation is a UK charity dedicated to building a "circular economy." The foundation counts Unilever (UL) and H&M Group (HNNMY) among its partners. What Nestlé hopes to do is create such an economy for food-grade plastics that would ensure the material never becomes waste. Defruyt said the strategy could stimulate a market that currently barely exists.Nestlé also announced a $260 million venture fund to invest in start-ups that focus on sustainable packaging. Total spending on the initiatives could reach 2 billion Swiss francs ($2.1 billion), the company said."It is encouraging that Nestlé has finally committed to reducing its reliance on virgin plastic," Matthias Wüthrich senior campaigner at Greenpeace Switzerland said in a statement. "If Nestlé wants to stop polluting the world, it needs to end its reliance on plastic," he added, urging the company to "eliminate single-use packaging altogether." Getting rid of plasticsNestlé is one of the world's worst corporate plastic polluters, according to Break Free From Plastic, a global lobby group whose members include Greenpeace and The Sierra Club. In October, the group named Nestlé, Coca-Cola (COKE) and PepsiCo (PEP) as the top polluting companies for the second year running.Nestlé's total plastics packaging usage in 2018 was 1.7 million metric tons, according to the company's website. Defruyt says only 2% of Nestlé's plastics packaging is made from recycled material.Its bottled water division, Nestlé Waters, is the largest of its kind in the world, manufacturing the likes of S.Pellegrino, Buxton and Poland Spring across 87 factories worldwide.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-15T17:31:05Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/15/business/colgate-recycle-toothpaste-tube-trnd/index.html
author: Francisco Guzman and Brian Ries, CNN
headline: Colgate finally launched its recyclable toothpaste tube. It's made from the same type of plastic as milk jugs - CNN
description : The oral-care brand is launching a vegan-certified toothpaste that comes in a recyclable tube. The product's development is five years in the making.  
keywords : business, Colgate finally launched its recyclable toothpaste tube. It's made from the same type of plastic as milk jugs - CNN
content: The oral-care brand is launching what it says is a vegan-certified toothpaste that comes in an "industry-first" recyclable tube.The product's development is five years in the making.Most toothpaste tubes are made from plastic and aluminum, making it impossible to reduce your environmental footprint. But soon, Colgate hopes, you can throw your toothpaste tube in the recycling bin.The new Smile for Good toothpaste tube is made from high density polyethylene (HDPE) -- that's the same plastic used for making milk jugs."Colgate wants to make tubes a part of the circular economy by keeping this plastic productive and eliminating waste," Colgate-Palmolive's Chief Executive Noel Wallace said in a release. Why it took so longIt took the company five years to develop the new tube.Colgate said it thought it could use a commonly recycled type of plastic called a "high-density polyethylene" (HDPE) for the new tube, but it discovered that it's not squeezable enough for toothpaste.It's so-called "eureka moment" came when it compiled several grades of HDPE material in a toothpaste tube. That correct combination "allows people to comfortably squeeze out all the toothpaste, protects the integrity of the product, and meets the demands of high-speed production."Going GreenColgate's toothpaste contains minimal ingredients. It is also made of components derived from natural sources. Most toothpastes, on the other hand, contain glycerin made from animal fat.The toothpaste lists each of its ingredients, 99.7% of which are natural. It is certified by the Vegan Society, the company says.Colgate-Palmolive (CL), which owns the Colgate brand, is pledging to use 100% recyclable packaging on all its products by 2025 -- and its not the only company investing in recyclable products.Procter & Gamble, for instance, is making more sustainable products by testing its refillable packages for Olay moisturizer, while Coca-Cola (KO) is committing to make its cans and bottles from at least 50% recycled material. And by 2022, every Poland Spring water that is under one gallon will be made from recycled plastic bottles. Starbucks (SBUX) is joining in on the fun by eliminating all plastic straws by this year and is testing out a new paper cup that uses less plastic. Two variations of the toothpaste -- Smile for Good Protection and Smile for Good Whitening - is available at retailers including Sainsbury's, Boots, Superdrug, Wilko, Waitrose, Ocado and Amazon.  
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-14T17:15:35Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/14/business/private-jets-davos-climate/index.html
author: Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: Davos VIPs are worried about the climate crisis. They're still using private jets - CNN
description : The World Economic Forum is preparing to perform a difficult dance: proclaim its growing concern for the climate crisis even as scores of private planes and luxury cars ferry attendees to its annual conference in Davos.
keywords : business, Davos VIPs are worried about the climate crisis. They're still using private jets - CNN
content: In an era of "flight shaming" and increased public awareness over climate change, the organizers of next week's event are ratcheting up efforts to reduce the environmental impact of the conference, which draws politicians and CEOs to the Swiss Alps for panel discussions, closed-door meetings and parties. Greta Thunberg, the teenage climate activist known for calling out global leaders, is attending for a second year after she criticized guests at a star-studded luncheon in 2019. WEF is touting promises to buy carbon credits offsetting flights, a redesigned conference center and a menu packed with locally-sourced food. The fleet of vehicles that will shuttle many dignitaries around the ski resort town is now 88% electric or hybrid.It's a mark of mounting pressure on the organization, which has long faced blowback for the environmental footprint of the summit. For some high-profile figures who plan to attend, such as BlackRock CEO Larry Fink, fighting climate change is now an urgent priority. The theme of this year's meeting is "Stakeholders for a Cohesive and Sustainable World."Still, the group's actions are unlikely to insulate it from critics, who argue that the forum and its attendees are more worried about optics than pursuing systemic change.WEF acknowledges that because it "brings together stakeholders to help address the greatest ecological crisis of our time," it eats up resources and causes emissions. In 2020, it's vowed to become "more sustainable than ever.""The Forum is committed to improving the state of the world and this is why sustainability of our 50th Annual Meeting takes on the utmost importance," Lee Howell, managing director at the World Economic Forum, said in a statement.Yet ensuring a sustainable conference is no simple task — in large part because of the sheer number of flights required to bring in nearly 3,000 delegates from around the world, to say nothing of their entourages, conference staffers, security personnel and the global media. Scientists have estimated that roughly 5% of global warming is the result of commercial aviation. Planes spew out carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, as well as nitrous oxides, which produce the greenhouse gas ozone. Contrails, ice particles produced by planes that trap radiation, also contribute to global warming.The issue has led to a strengthening "flight shaming" movement in Europe, known in Thunberg's native Swedish as "flygskam." Thunberg, who recently sailed across the Atlantic to attend a UN climate summit, traveled to Davos last year by train, a much cleaner form of transport.WEF notes that it has offset all flights for accredited attendees to its conference since 2017 by purchasing carbon credits that fund emissions-reducing projects. This year, credits purchased to offset conference emissions will support projects that aim to protect the Amazon from deforestation and convert methane from cow manure in Switzerland into energy.But Lucy Gilliam, aviation and shipping specialist at Transport & Environment, a European nonprofit that lobbies for clean transport, said there are drawbacks to offset programs, which need to be maintained over time and can take a while to kick in."You're not actually removing the emissions that have been created by that plane," she said. "The plane will have burned that fuel, and the carbon has been released into the atmosphere."The particular rub at Davos, Gilliam said, is that many participating government ministers and top corporate executives opt to take private planes, which produce more emissions per person than commercial flights.WEF estimates that there were as many as 309 trips last year by private planes to two nearby airports for the conference. That number, which excludes the presidents and prime ministers that tend to land at a nearby military base, was 20% lower than in 2018.Eymeric Segard, the CEO of LunaJets, says he's responding to the "flight shaming" movement. His Geneva-based company is pushing clients who want to book a private jet for Davos to opt for smaller, more fuel-efficient planes.LunaJets is also pledging to offset all trips it books by purchasing carbon credits. That means some trips to the conference could be offset twice — both by LunaJets and WEF."[It's a] very niche clientele that go to Davos," he said. "When they come from Africa, Asia, the US and India, a train is simply not an option." Armed with a webpage outlining its sustainability measures, WEF is prepared for questions.The group said that last year it had offset 35,000 tons of emissions, funding not only efficient cooking stoves in China, Mali, India and South Africa, but also restoring peatlands in the area that hosts the annual meeting.In addition to paying to offset all emissions, WEF has refurbished the main conference center where it holds events, installing solar panels and geothermal heating. Paint derived from seaweed has been used to freshen up some rooms. Carpeting on stages will come from renewable sources including "end-of life fishing nets."WEF is also eliminating single-use plastics for bags and drinks. "Future Food Wednesday" will feature "a menu that is rich in protein but meat- and fish-free." And Swiss artificial intelligence company Kitro's technology will be used to monitor food waste.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-14T07:28:12Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/14/business/nissan-renault-split-denial/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Nissan says it's not splitting up with Renault - CNN
description : Nissan is dismissing reports that it is engineering a corporate divorce from Renault. 
keywords : business, Nissan says it's not splitting up with Renault - CNN
content: "Nissan is in no way considering dissolving the Alliance," the Japanese carmaker said in a statement Tuesday, referring to the global car alliance between Nissan (NSANF), Renault (RNLSY) and Mitsubishi Motors. The statement came in response to the growing number of reports in recent days that Nissan was concerned about the strained relationship with Renault following the downfall of former chief Carlos Ghosn, and was looking into contingency plans to break away from the French carmaker. Ghosn is currently in Lebanon after making an audacious escape from Japan last month. He was arrested in Tokyo in late 2018 on suspicion of financial misconduct, leading to his ouster from atop Nissan and the alliance. Ghosn has repeatedly denied the charges, claiming that his arrest was brought about by Nissan executives who opposed his plans to deepen the Japanese company's integration with Renault. Ghosn engineered the global car alliance, and there has been talk of its demise ever since he was arrested.The three carmakers share ownership stakes, technology and manufacturing facilities. The setup has brought financial benefits. Pooling resources among the three manufacturers saves them more than €5 billion ($5.7 billion) a year in costs, according to the companies.Nissan on Tuesday highlighted the benefits of sticking with Renault and Mitsubishi. "The Alliance is the source of Nissan's competitiveness. Through the Alliance, to achieve sustainable and profitable growth, Nissan will look to continue delivering win-win results for all member companies," the company said. The government of France, which owns 15% of Renault, weighed in on Tuesday. Finance minister Bruno Le Maire told CNews TV that reports suggesting a split with Nissan were "malicious."Le Maire added that a new CEO for Renault should be in place "in a few days." Thierry Bolloré, who had succeeded Ghosn as CEO, was ousted in October. Ghosn's criticismAt a wide ranging press conference in Lebanon last week, Ghosn blasted the alliance for missing out on a "huge opportunity" following his ouster to bring Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) on board."It is unbelievable," said Ghosn. "How can you lose that? How can you lose a huge opportunity to become the dominant player in this industry?"Fiat Chrysler last year agreed to instead merge with French carmaker Peugeot. Ghosn also claimed that Nissan's campaign against him is destroying the company and its reputation, and diverting the attention of top management. "The market cap decrease of Nissan, since my arrest is more than $10 billion," he said. "They lost more than $40 million a day."Shares in Nissan have fallen 38% since Ghosn's November 2018 arrest, leading to just under a $10 billion drop in the company's market valuation. The company said last week that it is still pursuing "appropriate legal action" against Ghosn, despite his escape from Japan. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-09T05:57:26Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/09/business/nissan-japan-react-ghosn/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Ex-Nissan CEO: Carlos Ghosn's escape from Japan is a betrayal - CNN
description : Ex-Nissan chief and Carlos Ghosn protege Hiroto Saikawa is slamming his former mentor's brazen escape from Japan, calling it a betrayal.
keywords : business, Ex-Nissan CEO: Carlos Ghosn's escape from Japan is a betrayal - CNN
content: Ghosn fled because he was afraid he would be found guilty at trial, Saikawa told reporters in Tokyo on Thursday. "I feel like I have been betrayed again," he said.Ghosn spoke with international media in Lebanon for more than two hours on Wednesday, his first public press conference since fleeing Japan last week. He slammed Japan's criminal justice system, which he said "violates the most basic principles of humanity." He also named Saikawa as one of the Nissan executives who he claims plotted with Japanese prosecutors to oust Ghosn from the automotive empire he had built between Nissan (NSANF), Renault (RNLSY) and Mitsubishi Motors.Nissan executives were threatened by Renault's growing clout in the partnership, said Ghosn."Unfortunately there was no trust, and some of our Japanese friends thought that the only way to get rid of the influence of Renault on Nissan [was] to get rid of me," Ghosn said.Saikawa succeeded Ghosn as CEO of Nissan in April 2017. But his tenure as chief, especially after Ghosn was arrested in November 2018, was marked by a string of terrible earnings. Saikawa said last May that Nissan had hit "rock bottom," after reporting profits fell by nearly half. In July, at the last earnings press conference Saikawa presided over, Nissan reported a 99% plunge in operating profit.A couple of months later, Saikawa resigned as chief of Nissan after admitting that he and other top Nissan executives were overpaid as part of a stock-related payment plan. He denied any wrongdoing, and said he would return excess funds. He is still a member of Nissan's board of directors.Masakazu Toyoda, an independent director on Nissan's board, was also targeted during Ghosn's tongue-lashing."I don't have time to deal with a one man show by someone who violated the law and escaped justice," Toyoda told reporters in Japan on Thursday.Nissan and Renault declined to comment. Earlier, Nissan said it would still pursue "appropriate legal action" against Ghosn.Japanese officials also responded to Ghosn's public railing. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said at a press conference Thursday that Ghosn's claims are "one-sided and totally lack persuasion." Justice Minister Masoko Mori earlier defended the country's justice system as one that is sufficient to "clarify the truth in cases while guaranteeing basic individual human rights." Suga added that the government will "take maximum measures" to ensure "due procedure of Japan's criminal justice will be followed."Ghosn emerged in Lebanon last week after fleeing strict bail conditions in Tokyo that required him to stay in the country. In Japan, he faces charges of financial misconduct, including allegations that he understated his income for years and funneled millions of dollars of Nissan's money into a dealership that he controlled.He has repeatedly denied the charges against him, and said on Wednesday that he fled Japan because the country's criminal justice system — which boasts a conviction rate above 99% once suspects are charged — is "rigged."Ghosn said he is willing to face trial in Lebanon, Brazil or France — the three countries where he holds citizenship.-- CNN's Junko Ogura and Yoko Wakatsuki contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-08T09:07:09Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/08/business/carlos-ghosn-press-conference/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, Julia Horowitz and Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn press conference: Ex-Nissan chief speaks after escaping Japan - CNN
description : Carlos Ghosn has used his freedom to blast Japan's legal system and denounce his arrest as part of a plot to topple him as head of the world's most powerful auto alliance. 
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn press conference: Ex-Nissan chief speaks after escaping Japan - CNN
content: "I did not escape justice. I fled injustice," the former Nissan chairman told reporters in Beirut on Wednesday, his first major public appearance since pulling off a stunning breakout from Japan, where he was awaiting trial on charges of financial wrongdoing.He said his intention in speaking out was not to discuss how he fled the country, but to clear his name and explain why he "never should have been arrested in the first place."Ghosn was first arrested in Tokyo more than a year ago. Among other charges, prosecutors alleged that he understated his income for years and funneled $5 million of Nissan's money to a car dealership he controlled. The former auto industry titan has repeatedly denied the charges, and on Wednesday slammed Japan's criminal justice system, which he said "violates the most basic principles of humanity." He pointed to his time in solitary confinement, extended questioning without lawyers present, and the lack of a speedy trial. Japanese prosecutors were intent on extracting incriminating information, not on determining the truth, he claimed.Tokyo prosecutors said in a statement following the press conference that Ghosn "has only himself to blame for being arrested and detained," and for the conditions of his bail. There was sufficient evidence, they said, to "determine that there was a high probability of obtaining conviction."Japanese Justice Minister Masako Mori said in a statement that Ghosn "has been propagating both within Japan and internationally false information on Japan's legal system and its practice." "That is absolutely intolerable," she said.'I felt I was a hostage'Ghosn said his lawyers told him he could be held in Japan for five years before he received a judgment, and he became convinced he would die in the country if he did not jump bail."I felt I was a hostage of a country that I have served for 17 years," said Ghosn, who became Nissan CEO in 2001.Ghosn claimed his arrest resulted from a plot to oust him from the automotive empire he built between Nissan (NSANF), Renault (RNLSY) and Mitsubishi Motors. Nissan executives were threatened by Renault's growing clout in the partnership, he said."Unfortunately there was no trust, and some of our Japanese friends thought that the only way to get rid of the influence of Renault on Nissan [was] to get rid of me," Ghosn said.He said he favored greater integration between the companies, including the creation of a holding company that would consolidate shares of the automakers under a single name. Ghosn said he did not call for a merger and still wanted the companies to be run separately.Tokyo prosecutors denied that they conspired with Nissan to prosecute Ghosn.Nissan and Renault declined to comment. Earlier, Nissan said it would still pursue "appropriate legal action" against Ghosn.Making the escapeGhosn dodged questions about the logistics of his escape, which he pulled off despite strict bail conditions including a requirement that he stay in the country. Japanese officials have been scrambling to contain the fallout from his escape and figure out how he managed to get out of the country. On Sunday, Mori said Ghosn left the country "illegally by unjust methods," and she ordered Japan's immigration department to "further tighten" rules for leaving the country "so that the same situation won't be repeated."Lebanon said last week that he entered the country legally, according to the country's national news agency.Ghosn is a citizen of France, Brazil and Lebanon. Three of his passports had been confiscated and held by his Japanese defense team to prevent him from fleeing the country. But Junichiro Hironaka, his Japanese lawyer, revealed Saturday that Ghosn had a second French passport, with the court's permission. Hironaka said that passport was tucked away in a keyed transparent box that apparently only his lawyers could unlock.Japanese prosecutors on Tuesday issued an arrest warrant for his wife, Carole Ghosn, accusing her of giving false testimony during a court hearing last April. She attended Wednesday's press conference in Beirut."You discover this nine months later, one day before this press conference? What a coincidence," Carlos Ghosn said at the press conference, his voice rising. "This is exactly the way it works."Ghosn has denied reports that his family members were involved in helping him flee.Interpol has issued a "red notice" for Ghosn confirming he's wanted by Japanese police. Ghosn said Wednesday that his lawyers are looking at next steps, and indicated they may fight back by claiming his case involves "political persecution."He claims to be open to a trial outside Japan. "The first forum where I can express myself in front of a justice which is not biased, I'll go for it," he said.-— CNN's Chris Isidore, Chris Liakos, Yoko Wakatsuki and Nada AlTaher contributed to this report. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-06T10:39:45Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/06/business/carlos-ghosn-japan-foreign-ceos/index.html
author: Analysis by Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn is now free to speak out. Japan's reputation could suffer - CNN
description : Following his escape to Lebanon, former auto titan Carlos Ghosn is now free to tell his story about Japanese justice and his ouster from Nissan. His revelations could further dent Japan's reputation as a place for foreign executives to do business. 
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn is now free to speak out. Japan's reputation could suffer - CNN
content: Ghosn, an international executive with French, Brazilian and Lebanese citizenship, was credited with leading a stunning turnaround at Nissan after he took over as CEO in 2001. His reign at the carmaker was one of the few examples of a foreigner successfully running a big Japanese company.But tensions brewed beneath the surface, and they came to a boil with Ghosn's arrest in late 2018 on suspicion of financial misconduct, leading to his ouster from atop Nissan (NSANF) and its automotive alliance with Renault (RNLSY) and Mitsubishi. Ghosn has repeatedly denied the charges, claiming that his arrest was part of a plot to remove him from the empire he built. His audacious flight last week from Japan, where he had been bailed under strict conditions that included remaining in the country, puts a new twist on an already strained issue. Ghosn's public attacks will bruise 'brand Japan' "Brand Japan is going to suffer a great deal," said Jeffrey Kingston, director of Asian Studies at Temple University Japan. "His case is certainly a major black eye for the Japanese judicial system."Ghosn is already using his newfound freedom to rail on the country's criminal court system, which boasts an incredibly high conviction rate, and which he claims had held him "hostage." He has promised to communicate "freely" with journalists about his plight. The former Nissan chief may be guilty of various financial crimes, Kingston said, "but that has all been over shadowed" by Ghosn's treatment and his arguments that the judicial system is rigged. Japan's top judicial official, Justice Minister Masako Mori, acknowledged "various criticisms" of the system at a press conference Monday, without going into detail. She also repeated her defense of the system, saying it assures "fundamental human rights." Japan could seek Ghosn's extradition from Lebanon, Mori said, but such a request would need careful consideration as no extradition treaty exists between the two countries. More public attacks by Ghosn on the justice system and Nissan could scare off corporate Japan from wanting to deal with any foreigners at all. For Japanese companies following the Ghosn debacle and mulling hiring foreign executives, "the lesson is: the risk is too high," according to Kingston. Potential candidates are also likely to think twice. Attracting international talent will likely become a lot harder because foreign executives may not want to deal with Japanese firms, fearing they could become the next Ghosn, according to Kingston. "Imagine if you're a foreign CEO being recruited into Japan," he said. "Can we say, 'evacuation insurance?'" Foreign CEOs in Japan don't usually work outGhosn's fall in 2018 was stunning, but tensions between foreign management styles and the rest of corporate Japan have long predated this latest controversy. The reality is the overwhelming majority of Japanese companies don't bring in outside CEOs because the salary-man, lifetime employment system means they rarely need to hire outsiders, let alone foreigners who may have a tough time fitting in. And several high-profile CEO appointments to big Japanese companies haven't worked out so well. Michael Woodford's brief stint as CEO of electronics maker Olympus ended after he uncovered fraudulent practices at the company in 2011. Howard Stringer's tenure at Sony (SNE) coincided with an extended period of poor earnings. And Craig Naylor resigned as chief of Nippon Sheet Glass after less than two years on the job because he had major policy differences with the rest of the company. Christophe Weber, the French head of pharmaceutical maker Takeda (TAK), is now the country's most prominent non-Japanese boss. His bold, $62 billion acquisition last year of Ireland-based Shire was criticized by Japanese investors, who thought it was too risky for Takeda. A brash style and lavish compensationThe tension leading up to Ghosn's ouster, meanwhile, was partly fueled by resentment toward having a foreign CEO and a foreign shareholder imposed upon Nissan, according to Stephen Givens, a law professor at Tokyo's Sophia University. With that resentment came criticism about how Ghosn ran the company and how much he was paid.Ghosn engineered the global alliance between Nissan, Renault and Mitsubishi. Because Renault owned about 40% of Nissan, the French carmaker was able to force Ghosn on the Japanese firm, according to Givens. His appointment turned heads at the time because of Japan's unfamiliarity with his approach to management. Having rescued Renault, Ghosn set about cutting costs and laying off workers at Nissan, which Japanese executives had been reluctant to do. The turnaround earned Ghosn the nickname of "Le Cost Killer" and paid off for Nissan, which as part of the alliance vaulted atop the global car industry.But in recent years, Ghosn's brash style and generous compensation began to rub many in Japan the wrong way."Japanese will tolerate a lot of things, but they will not tolerate greed and self-enrichment," said Jesper Koll, head of Tokyo-based investment fund WisdomTree Japan.  Executive salaries in Japan are generally lower than in the United States, which made Ghosn's reported Nissan salary of about $9.7 million in 2017 stand out. A study last month from advisory firm Willis Towers Watson found median CEO pay in Japan was 156 million yen ($1.44 million) in 2018, compared to $13.7 million for CEOs in the United States. Japanese companies want "the CEO superstar" to grow business globally, but they don't "want to fall into the American trap of CEOs taking all the money and leaving nothing for regular staff," said Koll. "It's a huge challenge for corporate Japan. You have to pay somebody Michael Jordan wages, but in Japan they want to find another way," he said. Nissan has also blamed a "personality cult" around Ghosn for its troubles. After Ghosn was forced out, Nissan's governance committee laid out a damning report that claimed the former executive was "deified within Nissan as a savior," creating a culture that failed to apply checks and balances on Ghosn's power.'Global talent remains essential'Some experts caution against using Ghosn's case as a precedent for Japanese firms looking to hire global talent. His situation isn't necessarily indicative of a larger trend against foreign CEOs, according to Sophia University's Givens and others. Rather, the circumstances behind his downfall are just so bizarre and outlandish that they aren't likely to be repeated.At a better-governed company, "this strange series of events would never have occurred," said Nicholas Benes, head of The Board Director Training Institute of Japan. "If anything, this will strengthen further the perception that hiring global talent remains essential but good governance is necessary in any case — because no matter what, it doesn't make sense to have the CEO in de facto control of the board," Benes said. — CNN's Yoko Wakatsuki contributed to this report. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-03T14:08:00Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/03/business/carlos-ghosn-escape-jet/index.html
author: Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn escape: Turkish private jet company says rogue employee helped him flee Japan - CNN
description : A Turkish company that charters private jets says a rogue employee helped fugitive auto executive Carlos Ghosn escape from Japan to Lebanon.
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn escape: Turkish private jet company says rogue employee helped him flee Japan - CNN
content: MNG Jet said in a statement Friday that two of its jets were used "illegally" to transport Ghosn without the knowledge of company management. The company said it has filed a criminal complaint.MNG said it had leased two separate planes to different clients that did not appear to be connected. One was chartered from Dubai to Osaka and then Osaka to Istanbul, while the other was booked from Istanbul to Beirut.Turkish police launched an investigation into Ghosn's escape on Thursday, detaining seven people on suspicion of involvement in the plot.One employee under investigation by Turkish authorities had admitted to falsifying records, according to MNG."He confirmed that he acted in his individual capacity, without the knowledge or the authorization of the management of MNG Jet," the company said.Ghosn — the former chairman of Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors, and former chairman and CEO of their alliance partner, Renault — had been awaiting trial in Japan on charges of financial wrongdoing, including allegations that he understated his income for years and funneled $5 million of Nissan's money to a car dealership he controlled. He was ousted from his posts at Nissan (NSANF) and Mitsubishi Motors following his arrest in November 2018, and later resigned from Renault (RNLSY).As a condition of his release on bail, Ghosn was required to stay in Japan. But his case was upended earlier this week after Ghosn revealed that he had fled Japan for Lebanon to escape what he called a "rigged" justice system.Authorities have been scrambling to figure out how Ghosn pulled off the escape. Prosecutors in Tokyo raided the home where he had been staying on Thursday. Ghosn has denied reports that his family were involved in helping him flee.— Gul Tuysuz contributed reporting.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-02T10:14:13Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/02/business/ghosn-escape-japan-lebanon-raid/index.html
author: Yoko Wakatsuki and Jill Disis, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn: Japanese authorities have raided the former auto titan's Tokyo home - CNN
description : Japanese authorities have raided the home where embattled auto executive Carlos Ghosn was staying before he made his escape to Lebanon earlier this week. 
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn: Japanese authorities have raided the former auto titan's Tokyo home - CNN
content: Japanese media reported that Tokyo district prosecutors entered the property on Thursday. CNN affiliate TV Asahi also reported that prosecutors were working with police to access CCTV video around his home as part of their investigation. Ghosn — the former chairman of Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors, and former chairman and CEO of their alliance partner, Renault — had been awaiting trial in Japan on charges of financial wrongdoing, including allegations that he understated his income for years and funneled $5 million of Nissan's money to a car dealership he controlled. He was ousted from his posts at Nissan (NSANF) and Mitsubishi Motors following his arrest in November 2018, and later resigned from Renault (RNLSY). As a condition of being released on bail, Ghosn was required to stay in Japan. But his case was completely upended earlier this week after Ghosn revealed that he had fled Japan for Lebanon to escape what he called a "rigged" justice system. Lebanon said Thursday that it had received a "red notice" from Interpol confirming that the former auto titan is wanted by police.It is still not clear how Ghosn, who is a citizen of France, Brazil and Lebanon, was able to slip out of Japan. Reuters and the Financial Times have reported that he was smuggled out of Tokyo by a private security company -— a plot that the media organizations say took months to concoct. The governor of Istanbul said in a statement Thursday that Turkish police have detained seven people in connection with an investigation into Ghosn's "illegal escape" from Japan. Anadolu news agency said that Ghosn traveled via the city's Ataturk airport. Police detained four pilots of a private airline, a company manager and two ground staff at the request of the Istanbul prosecutor, according to the statement from the governor's office. Flight tracker Flightradar24 showed a private jet flying from Osaka, Japan, to Istanbul and then another continuing to Lebanon at the time Ghosn is said to have arrived in the country.CNN Business has been unable to verify the circumstances behind his departure, and Ghosn did not elaborate on his escape in his public statement earlier this week. In a brief statement on Thursday, Ghosn denied reports that his family were involved in helping him flee. "All such speculation is inaccurate and false. I alone arranged for my departure. My family had no role whatsoever," he said.Japan's justice ministry, the Tokyo prosecutor's office and the city's district court have not responded to requests from CNN Business this week for comment about Ghosn's escape. Government offices are closed this week for the New Year holiday. Legal experts and political analysts say that Japan is probably trying to figure out whether Ghosn violated immigration law when he left the country — not that there's much of a chance of forcing him to return. Prosecutors in Tokyo are now likely retracing Ghosn's moves through Japan, collecting surveillance footage and searching for potential collaborators said Nobuo Gohara, a former prosecutor who now runs a compliance and law office in Japan. Gohara added that Ghosn's trial is almost certainly now canceled. The bigger question, he said, is how Japanese authorities will respond to Ghosn's attacks on them, now that he is able to speak freely about his detention.Ghosn has repeatedly denied the charges against him, and claimed that his arrest was part of a plot to remove him from the automotive empire he built. In his statement this week, he said he would "no longer be held hostage by a rigged Japanese justice system where guilt is presumed, discrimination is rampant, and basic human rights are denied."Japan can't force Lebanon to send Ghosn back, said Keith Henry, the founder and representative director of Asia Strategy, a research and policy firm based in Tokyo. The two countries have no extradition agreement."It is a bigger deal for [Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo] Abe and Japan than for Ghosn," Henry said. "No matter what they do now, it is very difficult to overcome the embarrassment of letting go one of the most high-profile suspects" of corporate scandal since Japan's economic boom that followed World War II.— CNN's Isil Sariyuce in Istanbul and Anna-Maja Rappard in New York contributed to this article.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-05T12:11:25Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/05/business/ghosn-lebanon-escape-japan-intl-scli/index.html
author: Yoko Wakatsuki, Akanksha Sharma and Amy Woodyatt, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn escape to Lebanon 'illegal' and 'unjust' say Japanese officials  - CNN
description : Japanese officials on Sunday criticized Carlos Ghosn's escape from the country as "unjust" and vowed to tighten immigration rules in their first public remarks since the former auto executive fled for Lebanon a week ago. 
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn escape to Lebanon 'illegal' and 'unjust' say Japanese officials  - CNN
content: Ghosn left Japan "illegally by unjust methods," said Justice Minister Masako Mori, the country's top judicial official. She said that authorities have no official record of Ghosn's departure from Japan, and that prosecutors are investigating the case.Mori also said she has ordered the country's immigration department to "further tighten" rules for leaving the country "so that the same situation won't be repeated."Mori's statement — along with a similar one published Sunday by a Tokyo prosecutor — marked the first time Japanese authorities addressed Ghosn's stunning escape last week. Government offices in the country had been closed all week for the New Year holiday. Ghosn — the former chairman of Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors, and former chairman and CEO of their alliance partner, Renault — had been awaiting trial in Japan on charges of financial wrongdoing. As a condition of his release on bail, Ghosn was required to stay in Japan. But the case was upended after Ghosn revealed that he had fled Japan for Lebanon to escape what he called a "rigged" justice system.Mori defended the country's justice system on Sunday, adding that it assured "fundamental human rights" and set out to "find out the truth of the case."She also said that Ghosn's bail has been "canceled," and confirmed that the Japanese government asked Interpol, the international police agency, to issue a "red notice" for Ghosn. Lebanon said last week that it had received that notice, confirming that Ghosn is wanted by police. Takahiro Saito, Tokyo's deputy chief prosecutor, said in his own statement Sunday that Ghosn "deliberately ignored" Japan's justice proceedings by fleeing the country, even though his bail barred him from overseas travel. Saito added that Ghosn's escape "could be a criminal act." "Ghosn broke his own promise to attend the court and run away from Japan," Saito said. Both he and Mori called the event "regrettable."Ghosn was arrested in November 2018 and has since faced a litany of charges, including allegations that he understated his income for years and funneled $5 million of Nissan's money to a car dealership he controlled. He was ousted from his posts at Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors following his arrest in November 2018, and later resigned from Renault. He has denied the charges against him. Ghosn's Japanese lawyer, Junichiro Hironaka, said Saturday that the defense team would resign after contacting Ghosn this week. Hironaka had earlier told reporters that Ghosn's escape was a "complete surprise."Authorities, meanwhile, have been scrambling to figure out how Ghosn pulled off the escape. Prosecutors in Tokyo raided the home where he had been staying last Thursday. Ghosn has denied reports that his family were involved in helping him flee.Last week, a Turkish company that charters private jets confirmed that two of its planes were used "illegally" to transport Ghosn without the knowledge of company management. That company, MNG, said it has filed a criminal complaint.-- Yoko Wakatsuki reported from Tokyo, Akanksha Sharma reported from Hong Kong and Amy Woodyatt wrote from London.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-07T03:14:43Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/06/business/carlos-ghosn-nissan/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn: Nissan says it will still pursue legal action against former executive - CNN
description : Nissan said Tuesday that it will pursue "appropriate legal action" against its former boss Carlos Ghosn, despite his incredible escape from Japan. 
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn: Nissan says it will still pursue legal action against former executive - CNN
content: In its first public statement since Ghosn fled Tokyo last week, Nissan said it still plans to hold the former chief executive responsible for "serious misconduct," including allegations that he under-reported his income and used company assets for personal benefit. "The company will continue to take appropriate legal action to hold Ghosn accountable for the harm that his misconduct has caused to Nissan," the statement said. Ghosn was arrested in Tokyo in late 2018 on suspicion of financial misconduct, leading to his ouster from atop Nissan (NSANF) and its automotive alliance with Renault (RNLSY) and Mitsubishi Motors. Ghosn has repeatedly denied the charges, claiming that his arrest was part of a plot to remove him from the empire he built.He was under strict bail conditions in Tokyo when he made an audacious escape to Lebanon last week. He is already using his newfound freedom to rail on Japan's criminal court system, which boasts an incredibly high conviction rate, and which he claims had held him "hostage." He has promised to communicate "freely" with journalists about his plight.Nissan called Ghosn's escape "an act that defies Japan's judicial system." The company said consequences of the former auto executive's misconduct "have been significant," pointing out that he was probed by the United States, and adding that investigations in France are ongoing. In September, Ghosn agreed to pay $1 million to the US Securities and Exchange Commission to settle allegations that he concealed compensation received from Nissan. The SEC's lawsuit was a civil matter, unlike the criminal charges he faces in Japan. He did not admit to any wrongdoing as part of the settlement.Nissan said it will continue to cooperate with judicial and regulatory authorities wherever necessary.-- CNN's Yoko Wakatsuki contributed to this story. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-03T14:08:00Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/03/business/carlos-ghosn-escape-jet/index.html
author: Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn escape: Turkish private jet company says rogue employee helped him flee Japan - CNN
description : A Turkish company that charters private jets says a rogue employee helped fugitive auto executive Carlos Ghosn escape from Japan to Lebanon.
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn escape: Turkish private jet company says rogue employee helped him flee Japan - CNN
content: MNG Jet said in a statement Friday that two of its jets were used "illegally" to transport Ghosn without the knowledge of company management. The company said it has filed a criminal complaint.MNG said it had leased two separate planes to different clients that did not appear to be connected. One was chartered from Dubai to Osaka and then Osaka to Istanbul, while the other was booked from Istanbul to Beirut.Turkish police launched an investigation into Ghosn's escape on Thursday, detaining seven people on suspicion of involvement in the plot.One employee under investigation by Turkish authorities had admitted to falsifying records, according to MNG."He confirmed that he acted in his individual capacity, without the knowledge or the authorization of the management of MNG Jet," the company said.Ghosn — the former chairman of Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors, and former chairman and CEO of their alliance partner, Renault — had been awaiting trial in Japan on charges of financial wrongdoing, including allegations that he understated his income for years and funneled $5 million of Nissan's money to a car dealership he controlled. He was ousted from his posts at Nissan (NSANF) and Mitsubishi Motors following his arrest in November 2018, and later resigned from Renault (RNLSY).As a condition of his release on bail, Ghosn was required to stay in Japan. But his case was upended earlier this week after Ghosn revealed that he had fled Japan for Lebanon to escape what he called a "rigged" justice system.Authorities have been scrambling to figure out how Ghosn pulled off the escape. Prosecutors in Tokyo raided the home where he had been staying on Thursday. Ghosn has denied reports that his family were involved in helping him flee.— Gul Tuysuz contributed reporting.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-07T12:13:34Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/07/business/carole-ghosn-arrest-warrant/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn: Japan issues arrest warrant for Carole Ghosn, former Nissan chief's wife - CNN
description : Japanese prosecutors have issued an arrest warrant for Carole Ghosn, the latest twist in the dramatic saga involving her husband, the former auto executive and now international fugitive Carlos Ghosn. 
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn: Japan issues arrest warrant for Carole Ghosn, former Nissan chief's wife - CNN
content: Authorities obtained the warrant against Carole Ghosn for allegedly giving false testimony during a court hearing last April, according to a statement from the Tokyo prosecutor's office on Tuesday. Carole Ghosn is in Lebanon with her husband, according to CNN affiliate TV Asahi. He has denied reports that his family members were involved in helping him flee from Tokyo last week. A friend of the family said Carole Ghosn had never been arrested or charged, and accused Japanese authorities of "trying to intimidate an innocent woman.""Let's remember that the last time Mr. Ghosn was released and wanted to give his side of the story, he was rearrested the day after. We are again one day away from Mr. Ghosn speaking out and we are seeing the same threats," the friend added. Ghosn is widely expected to hold a press conference in Beirut on Wednesday.Japanese authorities have been scrambling to contain the fallout from Ghosn's audacious escape and figure out how he pulled it off in the first place. On Sunday, Justice Minister Masako Mori said Ghosn had left the country "illegally by unjust methods," and she ordered Japan's immigration department to "further tighten" rules for leaving the country "so that the same situation won't be repeated." Japan's ambassador to Lebanon, Takeshi Okubo, raised Ghosn's case with Lebanese President Michel Aoun on Tuesday. Aoun said the Lebanese government had no involvement in the incident and pledged "unstinting cooperation" to Japan, the Japanese ambassador said in a statement. Ghosn was arrested in November 2018 and has since faced a litany of charges, including allegations that he understated his income for years and funneled millions of dollars of Nissan money to a car dealership that he controlled. The arrest led to his ouster from atop Nissan (NSANF) and its automotive alliance with Renault (RNLSY) and Mitsubishi Motors.Ghosn has repeatedly denied the charges, claiming that his arrest was part of a plot to remove him from the business empire he had built.Before fleeing to Lebanon, the former auto executive had been under strict bail conditions in Tokyo, which included no contact with his wife. On Tuesday, the Tokyo district court said that Ghosn's 1.5 billion ($13.8 million) bail had been forfeited, the highest forfeited sum ever, according to local broadcaster NHK. Carole Ghosn had for months been blasting Japanese authorities for how they were handling her husband's case, and calling on world leaders such as US President Donald Trump, French President Emmanuel Macron and Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro to step in. Ghosn holds French, Brazilian and Lebanese citizenship. He has already been using his newfound freedom to rail on Japan's criminal court system, which boasts a conviction rate above 99% once suspects are charged. Ghosn said he was held "hostage" by the "rigged" system. — CNN's Yoko Wakatsuki, Anna-Maja Rappard and Chris Liakos contributed to this report. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-02T10:14:13Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/02/business/ghosn-escape-japan-lebanon-raid/index.html
author: Yoko Wakatsuki and Jill Disis, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn: Japanese authorities have raided the former auto titan's Tokyo home - CNN
description : Japanese authorities have raided the home where embattled auto executive Carlos Ghosn was staying before he made his escape to Lebanon earlier this week. 
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn: Japanese authorities have raided the former auto titan's Tokyo home - CNN
content: Japanese media reported that Tokyo district prosecutors entered the property on Thursday. CNN affiliate TV Asahi also reported that prosecutors were working with police to access CCTV video around his home as part of their investigation. Ghosn — the former chairman of Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors, and former chairman and CEO of their alliance partner, Renault — had been awaiting trial in Japan on charges of financial wrongdoing, including allegations that he understated his income for years and funneled $5 million of Nissan's money to a car dealership he controlled. He was ousted from his posts at Nissan (NSANF) and Mitsubishi Motors following his arrest in November 2018, and later resigned from Renault (RNLSY). As a condition of being released on bail, Ghosn was required to stay in Japan. But his case was completely upended earlier this week after Ghosn revealed that he had fled Japan for Lebanon to escape what he called a "rigged" justice system. Lebanon said Thursday that it had received a "red notice" from Interpol confirming that the former auto titan is wanted by police.It is still not clear how Ghosn, who is a citizen of France, Brazil and Lebanon, was able to slip out of Japan. Reuters and the Financial Times have reported that he was smuggled out of Tokyo by a private security company -— a plot that the media organizations say took months to concoct. The governor of Istanbul said in a statement Thursday that Turkish police have detained seven people in connection with an investigation into Ghosn's "illegal escape" from Japan. Anadolu news agency said that Ghosn traveled via the city's Ataturk airport. Police detained four pilots of a private airline, a company manager and two ground staff at the request of the Istanbul prosecutor, according to the statement from the governor's office. Flight tracker Flightradar24 showed a private jet flying from Osaka, Japan, to Istanbul and then another continuing to Lebanon at the time Ghosn is said to have arrived in the country.CNN Business has been unable to verify the circumstances behind his departure, and Ghosn did not elaborate on his escape in his public statement earlier this week. In a brief statement on Thursday, Ghosn denied reports that his family were involved in helping him flee. "All such speculation is inaccurate and false. I alone arranged for my departure. My family had no role whatsoever," he said.Japan's justice ministry, the Tokyo prosecutor's office and the city's district court have not responded to requests from CNN Business this week for comment about Ghosn's escape. Government offices are closed this week for the New Year holiday. Legal experts and political analysts say that Japan is probably trying to figure out whether Ghosn violated immigration law when he left the country — not that there's much of a chance of forcing him to return. Prosecutors in Tokyo are now likely retracing Ghosn's moves through Japan, collecting surveillance footage and searching for potential collaborators said Nobuo Gohara, a former prosecutor who now runs a compliance and law office in Japan. Gohara added that Ghosn's trial is almost certainly now canceled. The bigger question, he said, is how Japanese authorities will respond to Ghosn's attacks on them, now that he is able to speak freely about his detention.Ghosn has repeatedly denied the charges against him, and claimed that his arrest was part of a plot to remove him from the automotive empire he built. In his statement this week, he said he would "no longer be held hostage by a rigged Japanese justice system where guilt is presumed, discrimination is rampant, and basic human rights are denied."Japan can't force Lebanon to send Ghosn back, said Keith Henry, the founder and representative director of Asia Strategy, a research and policy firm based in Tokyo. The two countries have no extradition agreement."It is a bigger deal for [Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo] Abe and Japan than for Ghosn," Henry said. "No matter what they do now, it is very difficult to overcome the embarrassment of letting go one of the most high-profile suspects" of corporate scandal since Japan's economic boom that followed World War II.— CNN's Isil Sariyuce in Istanbul and Anna-Maja Rappard in New York contributed to this article.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-08T20:15:53Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/08/business/carlos-ghosn-cnn-interview/index.html
author: Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn: Reports of my escape are inaccurate - CNN
description : Carlos Ghosn admits he broke Japanese law when he fled the country for Lebanon last week. But not all the reports of his stunning escape are true, the former auto executive told CNN Business.
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn: Reports of my escape are inaccurate - CNN
content: "There are many rumors," Ghosn told Richard Quest in an interview Wednesday. "And they are not all in line."Ghosn said he feels "bad" that some of the people who aided him now face potential prosecution in Turkey, where he switched planes on his way out of Japan. However, everyone involved knew what could happen, he said."We knew from the beginning what are the risks, you know, involved [in] an operation like this," Ghosn said. "We all knew that. I knew what were my risks, I knew what were the risks of all the people who supported the operation."Ghosn — the former chairman of Nissan and the architect of its powerful alliance with Renault and Mitsubishi Motors — had been awaiting trial in Japan on charges of financial wrongdoing. Earlier Wednesday, in his first public appearance since his escape, Ghosn denounced his arrest as part of a plot to oust him from power, while blasting Japan's legal system as stacked against defendants.He told CNN Business that he made the decision to flee the country several weeks ago after determining he wouldn't receive a fair trial."I didn't leave Japan to hide somewhere," Ghosn said. "I left Japan because I'm looking for justice and I want to clear my name," he said, claiming he was nervous but felt he had "nothing to lose."Ghosn pushed back on the idea that it would be difficult to persuade the public of his innocence while remaining a fugitive."People don't like [a] fugitive when the fugitive is escaping justice. It's a different opinion when a fugitive is escaping injustice," he said. "I don't think that people look at people who run from North Korea, or from Vietnam, or from Russia under the Communist regime as people who are running from justice."Asked about media reports that he made it past Japanese authorities and onto a private plane by hiding in a box used to store audio equipment, Ghosn chuckled. He initially declined to comment, before continuing: "Freedom, no matter the way it happens, is always sweet."Authorities have been scrambling to figure out how Ghosn pulled off the escape. Last week, Turkish police launched an investigation, detaining seven people on suspicion of involvement in the plot. A Turkish private jet operator said one of its employees admitted to falsifying records.Japanese prosecutors said Wednesday that they are determined to "take whatever measure we have in our power to bring defendant Ghosn to justice in Japan." Ghosn said he is willing to face trial outside the country."Defendant Carlos Ghosn fled from Japan by acting in a way that could constitute a crime in itself," Japanese prosecutors said in a statement following Ghosn's public remarks. "His statements during his press conference today failed to justify his acts."In a separate statement, Japanese Justice Minister Masako Mori said that Ghosn "has been propagating both within Japan and internationally false information on Japan's legal system and its practice." "That is absolutely intolerable," she said.International police agency Interpol last week released a "red notice" alerting Lebanese authorities that Ghosn is wanted by Japanese police. Ghosn has been summoned to face questioning on Thursday about the notice by Lebanon's state prosecutor judge Ghassan Oueidat, according to a statement released through the country's national news agency Wednesday. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-05T12:11:25Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/05/business/ghosn-lebanon-escape-japan-intl-scli/index.html
author: Yoko Wakatsuki, Akanksha Sharma and Amy Woodyatt, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn escape to Lebanon 'illegal' and 'unjust' say Japanese officials  - CNN
description : Japanese officials on Sunday criticized Carlos Ghosn's escape from the country as "unjust" and vowed to tighten immigration rules in their first public remarks since the former auto executive fled for Lebanon a week ago. 
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn escape to Lebanon 'illegal' and 'unjust' say Japanese officials  - CNN
content: Ghosn left Japan "illegally by unjust methods," said Justice Minister Masako Mori, the country's top judicial official. She said that authorities have no official record of Ghosn's departure from Japan, and that prosecutors are investigating the case.Mori also said she has ordered the country's immigration department to "further tighten" rules for leaving the country "so that the same situation won't be repeated."Mori's statement — along with a similar one published Sunday by a Tokyo prosecutor — marked the first time Japanese authorities addressed Ghosn's stunning escape last week. Government offices in the country had been closed all week for the New Year holiday. Ghosn — the former chairman of Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors, and former chairman and CEO of their alliance partner, Renault — had been awaiting trial in Japan on charges of financial wrongdoing. As a condition of his release on bail, Ghosn was required to stay in Japan. But the case was upended after Ghosn revealed that he had fled Japan for Lebanon to escape what he called a "rigged" justice system.Mori defended the country's justice system on Sunday, adding that it assured "fundamental human rights" and set out to "find out the truth of the case."She also said that Ghosn's bail has been "canceled," and confirmed that the Japanese government asked Interpol, the international police agency, to issue a "red notice" for Ghosn. Lebanon said last week that it had received that notice, confirming that Ghosn is wanted by police. Takahiro Saito, Tokyo's deputy chief prosecutor, said in his own statement Sunday that Ghosn "deliberately ignored" Japan's justice proceedings by fleeing the country, even though his bail barred him from overseas travel. Saito added that Ghosn's escape "could be a criminal act." "Ghosn broke his own promise to attend the court and run away from Japan," Saito said. Both he and Mori called the event "regrettable."Ghosn was arrested in November 2018 and has since faced a litany of charges, including allegations that he understated his income for years and funneled $5 million of Nissan's money to a car dealership he controlled. He was ousted from his posts at Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors following his arrest in November 2018, and later resigned from Renault. He has denied the charges against him. Ghosn's Japanese lawyer, Junichiro Hironaka, said Saturday that the defense team would resign after contacting Ghosn this week. Hironaka had earlier told reporters that Ghosn's escape was a "complete surprise."Authorities, meanwhile, have been scrambling to figure out how Ghosn pulled off the escape. Prosecutors in Tokyo raided the home where he had been staying last Thursday. Ghosn has denied reports that his family were involved in helping him flee.Last week, a Turkish company that charters private jets confirmed that two of its planes were used "illegally" to transport Ghosn without the knowledge of company management. That company, MNG, said it has filed a criminal complaint.-- Yoko Wakatsuki reported from Tokyo, Akanksha Sharma reported from Hong Kong and Amy Woodyatt wrote from London.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-03T14:08:00Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/03/business/carlos-ghosn-escape-jet/index.html
author: Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn escape: Turkish private jet company says rogue employee helped him flee Japan - CNN
description : A Turkish company that charters private jets says a rogue employee helped fugitive auto executive Carlos Ghosn escape from Japan to Lebanon.
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn escape: Turkish private jet company says rogue employee helped him flee Japan - CNN
content: MNG Jet said in a statement Friday that two of its jets were used "illegally" to transport Ghosn without the knowledge of company management. The company said it has filed a criminal complaint.MNG said it had leased two separate planes to different clients that did not appear to be connected. One was chartered from Dubai to Osaka and then Osaka to Istanbul, while the other was booked from Istanbul to Beirut.Turkish police launched an investigation into Ghosn's escape on Thursday, detaining seven people on suspicion of involvement in the plot.One employee under investigation by Turkish authorities had admitted to falsifying records, according to MNG."He confirmed that he acted in his individual capacity, without the knowledge or the authorization of the management of MNG Jet," the company said.Ghosn — the former chairman of Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors, and former chairman and CEO of their alliance partner, Renault — had been awaiting trial in Japan on charges of financial wrongdoing, including allegations that he understated his income for years and funneled $5 million of Nissan's money to a car dealership he controlled. He was ousted from his posts at Nissan (NSANF) and Mitsubishi Motors following his arrest in November 2018, and later resigned from Renault (RNLSY).As a condition of his release on bail, Ghosn was required to stay in Japan. But his case was upended earlier this week after Ghosn revealed that he had fled Japan for Lebanon to escape what he called a "rigged" justice system.Authorities have been scrambling to figure out how Ghosn pulled off the escape. Prosecutors in Tokyo raided the home where he had been staying on Thursday. Ghosn has denied reports that his family were involved in helping him flee.— Gul Tuysuz contributed reporting.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-08T20:15:53Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/08/business/carlos-ghosn-cnn-interview/index.html
author: Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn: Reports of my escape are inaccurate - CNN
description : Carlos Ghosn admits he broke Japanese law when he fled the country for Lebanon last week. But not all the reports of his stunning escape are true, the former auto executive told CNN Business.
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn: Reports of my escape are inaccurate - CNN
content: "There are many rumors," Ghosn told Richard Quest in an interview Wednesday. "And they are not all in line."Ghosn said he feels "bad" that some of the people who aided him now face potential prosecution in Turkey, where he switched planes on his way out of Japan. However, everyone involved knew what could happen, he said."We knew from the beginning what are the risks, you know, involved [in] an operation like this," Ghosn said. "We all knew that. I knew what were my risks, I knew what were the risks of all the people who supported the operation."Ghosn — the former chairman of Nissan and the architect of its powerful alliance with Renault and Mitsubishi Motors — had been awaiting trial in Japan on charges of financial wrongdoing. Earlier Wednesday, in his first public appearance since his escape, Ghosn denounced his arrest as part of a plot to oust him from power, while blasting Japan's legal system as stacked against defendants.He told CNN Business that he made the decision to flee the country several weeks ago after determining he wouldn't receive a fair trial."I didn't leave Japan to hide somewhere," Ghosn said. "I left Japan because I'm looking for justice and I want to clear my name," he said, claiming he was nervous but felt he had "nothing to lose."Ghosn pushed back on the idea that it would be difficult to persuade the public of his innocence while remaining a fugitive."People don't like [a] fugitive when the fugitive is escaping justice. It's a different opinion when a fugitive is escaping injustice," he said. "I don't think that people look at people who run from North Korea, or from Vietnam, or from Russia under the Communist regime as people who are running from justice."Asked about media reports that he made it past Japanese authorities and onto a private plane by hiding in a box used to store audio equipment, Ghosn chuckled. He initially declined to comment, before continuing: "Freedom, no matter the way it happens, is always sweet."Authorities have been scrambling to figure out how Ghosn pulled off the escape. Last week, Turkish police launched an investigation, detaining seven people on suspicion of involvement in the plot. A Turkish private jet operator said one of its employees admitted to falsifying records.Japanese prosecutors said Wednesday that they are determined to "take whatever measure we have in our power to bring defendant Ghosn to justice in Japan." Ghosn said he is willing to face trial outside the country."Defendant Carlos Ghosn fled from Japan by acting in a way that could constitute a crime in itself," Japanese prosecutors said in a statement following Ghosn's public remarks. "His statements during his press conference today failed to justify his acts."In a separate statement, Japanese Justice Minister Masako Mori said that Ghosn "has been propagating both within Japan and internationally false information on Japan's legal system and its practice." "That is absolutely intolerable," she said.International police agency Interpol last week released a "red notice" alerting Lebanese authorities that Ghosn is wanted by Japanese police. Ghosn has been summoned to face questioning on Thursday about the notice by Lebanon's state prosecutor judge Ghassan Oueidat, according to a statement released through the country's national news agency Wednesday. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-09T05:57:26Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/09/business/nissan-japan-react-ghosn/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Ex-Nissan CEO: Carlos Ghosn's escape from Japan is a betrayal - CNN
description : Ex-Nissan chief and Carlos Ghosn protege Hiroto Saikawa is slamming his former mentor's brazen escape from Japan, calling it a betrayal.
keywords : business, Ex-Nissan CEO: Carlos Ghosn's escape from Japan is a betrayal - CNN
content: Ghosn fled because he was afraid he would be found guilty at trial, Saikawa told reporters in Tokyo on Thursday. "I feel like I have been betrayed again," he said.Ghosn spoke with international media in Lebanon for more than two hours on Wednesday, his first public press conference since fleeing Japan last week. He slammed Japan's criminal justice system, which he said "violates the most basic principles of humanity." He also named Saikawa as one of the Nissan executives who he claims plotted with Japanese prosecutors to oust Ghosn from the automotive empire he had built between Nissan (NSANF), Renault (RNLSY) and Mitsubishi Motors.Nissan executives were threatened by Renault's growing clout in the partnership, said Ghosn."Unfortunately there was no trust, and some of our Japanese friends thought that the only way to get rid of the influence of Renault on Nissan [was] to get rid of me," Ghosn said.Saikawa succeeded Ghosn as CEO of Nissan in April 2017. But his tenure as chief, especially after Ghosn was arrested in November 2018, was marked by a string of terrible earnings. Saikawa said last May that Nissan had hit "rock bottom," after reporting profits fell by nearly half. In July, at the last earnings press conference Saikawa presided over, Nissan reported a 99% plunge in operating profit.A couple of months later, Saikawa resigned as chief of Nissan after admitting that he and other top Nissan executives were overpaid as part of a stock-related payment plan. He denied any wrongdoing, and said he would return excess funds. He is still a member of Nissan's board of directors.Masakazu Toyoda, an independent director on Nissan's board, was also targeted during Ghosn's tongue-lashing."I don't have time to deal with a one man show by someone who violated the law and escaped justice," Toyoda told reporters in Japan on Thursday.Nissan and Renault declined to comment. Earlier, Nissan said it would still pursue "appropriate legal action" against Ghosn.Japanese officials also responded to Ghosn's public railing. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said at a press conference Thursday that Ghosn's claims are "one-sided and totally lack persuasion." Justice Minister Masoko Mori earlier defended the country's justice system as one that is sufficient to "clarify the truth in cases while guaranteeing basic individual human rights." Suga added that the government will "take maximum measures" to ensure "due procedure of Japan's criminal justice will be followed."Ghosn emerged in Lebanon last week after fleeing strict bail conditions in Tokyo that required him to stay in the country. In Japan, he faces charges of financial misconduct, including allegations that he understated his income for years and funneled millions of dollars of Nissan's money into a dealership that he controlled.He has repeatedly denied the charges against him, and said on Wednesday that he fled Japan because the country's criminal justice system — which boasts a conviction rate above 99% once suspects are charged — is "rigged."Ghosn said he is willing to face trial in Lebanon, Brazil or France — the three countries where he holds citizenship.-- CNN's Junko Ogura and Yoko Wakatsuki contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-07T03:14:43Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/06/business/carlos-ghosn-nissan/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Carlos Ghosn: Nissan says it will still pursue legal action against former executive - CNN
description : Nissan said Tuesday that it will pursue "appropriate legal action" against its former boss Carlos Ghosn, despite his incredible escape from Japan. 
keywords : business, Carlos Ghosn: Nissan says it will still pursue legal action against former executive - CNN
content: In its first public statement since Ghosn fled Tokyo last week, Nissan said it still plans to hold the former chief executive responsible for "serious misconduct," including allegations that he under-reported his income and used company assets for personal benefit. "The company will continue to take appropriate legal action to hold Ghosn accountable for the harm that his misconduct has caused to Nissan," the statement said. Ghosn was arrested in Tokyo in late 2018 on suspicion of financial misconduct, leading to his ouster from atop Nissan (NSANF) and its automotive alliance with Renault (RNLSY) and Mitsubishi Motors. Ghosn has repeatedly denied the charges, claiming that his arrest was part of a plot to remove him from the empire he built.He was under strict bail conditions in Tokyo when he made an audacious escape to Lebanon last week. He is already using his newfound freedom to rail on Japan's criminal court system, which boasts an incredibly high conviction rate, and which he claims had held him "hostage." He has promised to communicate "freely" with journalists about his plight.Nissan called Ghosn's escape "an act that defies Japan's judicial system." The company said consequences of the former auto executive's misconduct "have been significant," pointing out that he was probed by the United States, and adding that investigations in France are ongoing. In September, Ghosn agreed to pay $1 million to the US Securities and Exchange Commission to settle allegations that he concealed compensation received from Nissan. The SEC's lawsuit was a civil matter, unlike the criminal charges he faces in Japan. He did not admit to any wrongdoing as part of the settlement.Nissan said it will continue to cooperate with judicial and regulatory authorities wherever necessary.-- CNN's Yoko Wakatsuki contributed to this story. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-03T08:52:50Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/03/business/hong-kong-economy-coronavirus-intl-hnk/index.html
author: Analysis by Joshua Berlinger, CNN Business
headline: Hong Kong's economy was wrecked by protests. Coronavirus is the last thing this city needs. - CNN
description : Months of increasingly violent protests and a bruising US-China trade war pushed Hong Kong into a recession last year for the first time in a decade. Now the coronavirus outbreak threatens to derail things once again.
keywords : business, Hong Kong's economy was wrecked by protests. Coronavirus is the last thing this city needs. - CNN
content: Officials on Monday said Hong Kong's economy shrank 1.2% last year as massive pro-democracy protests paralyzed the city's streets and scared away tourists. GDP shrank 2.9% in the fourth quarter alone. The trade spat between Washington and Beijing compounded the problem, as did concerns about China's economic growth. Until recently, the Asian financial hub had reason to hope that 2020 would be better. The demonstrations were becoming less frequent, while an initial trade deal provided some hope that the relationship between the United States and China could improve. "The US-China phase one trade deal and growth stabilization in China should have been positive for Hong Kong's near-term economic outlook," said Tommy Wu, a senior economist at Oxford Economics. "But it has been overshadowed by the coronavirus outbreak."Hong Kong now has to worry about how to stave off a dangerous epidemic that spurred government officials to cancel school for weeks, order civil servants to work from home and urge private companies to do the same. Retail stores, theme parks, cultural attractions and other hotspots also remain closed. Crowds are still common, but most people are wearing face masks as a form of protection.The coronavirus "will definitely cause a double blow to the economy," Hong Kong Financial Secretary Paul Chan wrote in a Sunday blog post. He added that the virus "will greatly increase the risk of continued economic contraction this year."The Hong Kong government said Monday that the city's economic outlook this year is "subject to high uncertainties," including the global economy, trade and the protests. As for the coronavirus outbreak, the government said it would "monitor the situation closely."Hong Kong, which has some level of autonomy from mainland China and its own immigration system, has managed to avoid the worst of the outbreak. Only 15 cases have been confirmed in the city, and there have been no deaths. Just over the border in mainland China, the number of confirmed cases totals more than 17,000, while at least 360 people have died. But the memory of 2003's SARS crisis looms large in Hong Kong, reminding its people of the toll a serious disease can take on the city. More than 280 of the 774 people who died from SARS were reported in Hong Kong, the highest death toll outside of mainland China. The SARS scare caused the city's economy to shrink 0.5% in the second quarter before it rebounded later in the year.A 'double whammy' for businessesLast year's protest movement led millions of Hong Kongers to take to the streets and demand democratic and police reforms. Some clashes between protesters and police became violent, and tear gas, petrol bombs, rubber bullets and water cannons became part of the city's new normal. The protests hit the city's hospitality and food and beverage industries particularly hard. Many people just stopped going out, fearful that if they strayed too far from home they would find themselves accidentally caught up in a demonstration or cut off from public transportation.Despite the turmoil, the hospitality industry had been showing signs of recovery in December, according to Allan Zeman, the founder of the property developer Lan Kwai Fong Group."It's kind of a double whammy for Hong Kong," said Zeman, whose company developed the popular Hong Kong nightlife district Lan Kwai Fong. "We were hoping that going into the Year of the Rat that this would continue," he added, referring to this year's Lunar New Year zodiac. "Suddenly, the coronavirus hit." Black Sheep Restaurants, a group that runs more than 20 Hong Kong businesses, echoed that show of progress, along with concerns about the virus. "Things were on the up at the end of last year and first couple of weeks of [January]," Co-founder Syed Asim Hussain told CNN Business in an email. "However we are now again between a rock and a hard place."Hussain said the company's main concern is the safety of its team. But he added that Black Sheep expects February to be slow, potentially leading to a "financial write off" for the first quarter.Tourism is another major concern for the city. The protests already took a heavy toll on the industry: The number of people who visited Hong Kong in November plunged by nearly half compared to a year earlier, according to the latest available government figures. The coronavirus outbreak will likely exacerbate that problem. Most of Hong Kong's visitors come from mainland China, where many cities have placed their residents on lockdown. Hong Kong has also closed some of its border crossings into the mainland in an attempt to stop the virus from spreading. Too early to tellWhat's still uncertain is how dramatic and long lasting the effects of the coronavirus will be on Hong Kong's economy.Iris Pang, an economist at ING, told CNN Business that she expects retail to be moderately affected by the outbreak, noting that last year's protests caused those businesses to take a big hit. But she added that ING doesn't think the virus will have a substantial impact on GDP. Goldman Sachs on Friday cut its forecast for Hong Kong's economic growth in the first quarter from 5.6% to 4%. The analysts attributed that in large part to how the virus will impact the city's tourism, retail, hospitality, and food and beverage industries.The bank warned that things could get worse, and that a prolonged outbreak could lower full-year economic growth to 5% or less.Wu, of Oxford Economics, said the virus could have a "drastic" impact on the economy. "Some sectors are doing better — like supermarkets, drugstores etc. But shopping malls and luxury brands will likely be hit badly," he said. Wu added that the problem isn't just about the lack of tourism in the city, but about how much people who already live in Hong Kong will spend as worries about the spread of the virus grow. Zeman, of Lan Kwai Fong, the said it's too early to tell how bad the effects will be, since a lot of businesses are just now getting back to work after the Lunar New Year. The holiday ended last Wednesday, but many in the city typically take the whole week off. But the government-mandated closures of schools and some public facilities, along with official encouragement that people stay indoors, will likely mean an uncertain future for many businesses."It's not an easy situation, because at the moment, there's no light at the end of the tunnel," said Zeman. "I know many of my tenants, I don't know if they can survive."-- Sherisse Pham and Michelle Toh contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-21T10:23:51Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/21/business/china-coronavirus-ctrip-travel/index.html
author: Laura He and Steven Jiang, CNN Business
headline: China's travel industry braces for Wuhan coronavirus disruption - CNN
description : China's biggest online travel agency is waiving cancellation fees for trips to the central Chinese city of Wuhan as a deadly new virus sparks fear in the country.
keywords : business, China's travel industry braces for Wuhan coronavirus disruption - CNN
content: Local authorities in the central China city of Wuhan have delayed the city's 2020 Lunar New Year celebration set to begin Saturday, amid fears that a pneumonia-causing virus is spreading through the city.  The decision Tuesday by Trip.com (TCOM), also known as Ctrip, is one of the first signs of China's travel industry starting to respond to the new coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan and has killed at least six people and sickened hundreds. Worries about a possible epidemic have been amplified because the outbreak coincides with the Lunar New Year holiday, when millions of people are expected to travel within China and to other regions in Asia.Trip.com said it would offer customers free cancellation on all hotels, car rentals and tickets for tourist attractions in Wuhan until January 31. If a hotel refuses to refund the booking fee, Trip.com said it will pay back travelers out of its own pocket.Anyone who has been infected by the virus, or those who have been quarantined or sent back to their place of departure — regardless of where they are located — are also eligible for Trip.com's free cancellation policy. Their travel companions qualify, too. The company also said it will try to "coordinate" with airlines and other companies regarding cancellation requests. At least one Chinese state media outlet, the China Youth Daily, has suggested that the nation's railways and airlines waive cancellation fees to help "contain the spread of the disease."Fliggy and Qunar.com, two smaller agencies, announced similar policies Tuesday.Tianjin Airlines and Hainan Airlines, which are both owned by HNA Group, have said that they would allow people to change or cancel their flights to Wuhan if they have been quarantined because they show signs of sickness. Those people can do so without penalties until February 29.Concerns about the virus reached new heights Tuesday after China confirmed that the disease can be transmitted between humans. Earlier this month, Chinese scientists identified the pathogen as a new strain of coronavirus, the same family as the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), which infected more than 8,000 people and killed 774 in a pandemic that ripped through Asia and spread as far as Canada nearly two decades ago.Market analysts and economists have suggested that the new coronavirus could become a major risk for the region should it continue to spread.Rajiv Biswas, IHS Markit's chief economist for Asia Pacific, pointed out that China's international tourism has boomed since the SARS outbreak, making the risk that a SARS-like virus could spread globally even more severe.Asian markets were broadly lower Tuesday. The "sea of red" in Asian markets on Tuesday highlights "if nothing else, that the global economy has precious spare capacity to absorb unexpected crises," wrote Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst for Asia Pacific at Oanda, in a research note Tuesday.Some individual travel stocks performed particularly poorly.  Air China, China Eastern Airlines and China Southern Airlines — the country's three biggest airlines — fell between 5.9% and 6.7% on Tuesday in Hong Kong.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-24T09:49:17Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/24/business/disneyland-china-wuhan-virus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Disney closes Shanghai park as deadly coronavirus spreads - CNN
description : Disney is closing down its Shanghai resort over the lucrative Lunar New Year holiday, amid growing fears over the deadly Wuhan coronavirus. 
keywords : business, Disney closes Shanghai park as deadly coronavirus spreads - CNN
content: Shanghai Disney Resort made the announcement on its official website on Friday, saying the closure was "in response to the prevention and control of the disease outbreak." The resort said it will refund guests for admission fees, hotel bookings and other pre-purchased entertainment tickets. It did not say when the park would reopen. The disease, which originated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, has already left dozens of people dead and more than 800 infected as it spreads throughout Asia and as far as the United States. At least 10 cities in central Hubei province are facing travel restrictions, including Wuhan. Major cities including Beijing have canceled some or all major Lunar New Year celebrations — a rare, drastic step to reign in the spread of the virus.Disney (DIS) opened its $5.5 billion Shanghai resort in 2016 with much fanfare, including speeches from top Chinese officials.But the mega theme park has struggled to win over China's cost-conscious consumers, and there have reportedly been several complaints about its ticketing policy and food and beverage prices.Disney said in November that the Shanghai resort saw an uptick in revenue in its fiscal fourth quarter, but higher average ticket prices resulted in "lower attendance" compared to the same period a year earlier.The closure comes less than two weeks after Shanghai Disney Resort unveiled a series of events tailored for China's Year of the Rat. The park had completed a "festive makeover" to usher in what it called the "Year of the Mouse." It launched new holiday festivities, new merchandise, Lunar New Year dining options and made new outfits for Mickey, Minnie and other Disney mascots.Other popular tourist attractions, such as the Forbidden City in Beijing, have been shut down in China due to concerns over the Wuhan virus.  More entertainment venues will also feel the hit as people stay indoors and avoid crowded areas. China's National Center for the Performing Arts announced on Friday that all performances scheduled between Jan 26th to 30th were canceled. Other  venues followed. Beijing People's Art Theater said it would close on the 24th and did not give a date when it would reopen. Nanjing Jiangsu Theater canceled 9 performances. Chinese state news agency Xinhua reported on Thursday that blockbuster movies that were set to release during China's lucrative Lunar New Year holiday have been pulled.Producers and distributors canceled or postponed all seven Chinese movies — many of them big franchise series films — that were due to hit theaters this weekend, citing the lack of ventilation in movie theaters and the highly contagious nature of the coronavirus. Ticketing platforms, such as Maoyan, Damai, and Taopiaopiao, said they will refund all tickets that had been pre-purchased by customers.Leading cinema chain brands, including Jinyi, CGV, Bona, announced before Lunar New Year's eve that they would be shutting down during the peak holiday season in response to the coronavirus outbreak. Wanda Cinema, China's largest film distributor with over 500 cinemas across the country, said it would refund tickets for those who chose not to go the movies.The holiday is a big draw for moviegoers. Last year, China's Lunar New Year box office pulled in more than 5 billion yuan ($720.8 million), according to Xinhua.— Yuli Yang and Hannah Zhang contributed to this report. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-04T10:55:40Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/04/business/macao-casinos-suspended-coronavirus-outbreak/index.html
author: Michelle Toh, Sandi Sidhu and Chermaine Lee, CNN Business
headline: Macao will close its casinos for two weeks over the coronavirus outbreak - CNN
description : Macao, one of the world's top gambling hubs, is planning to close its casinos as the deadly coronavirus outbreak continues to surge. 
keywords : business, Macao will close its casinos for two weeks over the coronavirus outbreak - CNN
content: The government of the semi-autonomous Chinese territory will suspend operations in gambling and other related industries for about two weeks, Macao Chief Executive Ho Iat Seng said during a press conference Tuesday.Macao has 10 confirmed cases of the coronavirus, which has killed at least 427 people and infected more than 20,000, mainly in China.Ho said that the decision was made after an expert review, as the ninth confirmed patient was discovered to have worked in the gambling industry. Macao officials told CNN that the date the suspension will start hasn't yet been decided. The city's leader planned to meet with representatives from gambling companies on Tuesday.Casino stocks dropped in Hong Kong following the announcement. Galaxy Entertainment and Sands China, both components of the Hang Seng Index (HSI), declined by 2%.Shares in Wynn Macau (WYNMF) and MGM China (MCHVF), which also trade in Hong Kong, fell 1.7% and 2.2%, respectively.  In the United States, Wynn (WYNN) and MGM (MGM) tumbled 3% in premarket trading. Las Vegas Sands (LVS) fell 5%.Gambling is the lifeblood of Macao, a vibrant southern Chinese city that depends on millions of visitors from mainland China. But the recent global health scare has threatened the business model at the heart of Macao's economy. Last year, the city received almost 40 million visitors. Now, streets and squares once teeming with tourists from mainland China are empty. Ambulances roam the city, operated by emergency workers dressed in hazardous materials suits.According to the Macao government, January tourism figures plunged 87% compared to the previous year, even though the busiest holiday of the year — Lunar New Year — fell during that period.— Laura He, Ivan Watson and Brad Olson contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-21T04:29:25Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/20/business/iata-airlines-coronavirus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Global air traffic could fall this year for the first time in a decade because of the coronavirus - CNN
description : The global airline industry is facing huge financial losses and its first decline in more than a decade because of the novel coronavirus outbreak. 
keywords : business, Global air traffic could fall this year for the first time in a decade because of the coronavirus - CNN
content: The International Air Transport Authority (IATA) warned on Thursday that the virus' impact on demand could cost airlines more than $29 billion, with Asian carriers bearing the brunt of the losses. The outbreak will also likely reduce global traffic by 4.7%, wiping out IATA's earlier forecast for growth and marking the first overall decline in demand since the global financial crisis of 2008 - 2009. The coronavirus has killed more than 2,200 people worldwide, with all but 11 of those deaths in mainland China. The total number of infected worldwide stands at over 76,000.In response, dozens of airlines have canceled or reduced services to mainland China. Beijing has also placed more than 780 million people under travel restrictions in an effort to contain the virus, and suspended all domestic and international tour packages.  IATA's forecast assumes that the outbreak remains mostly in China. "If it spreads more widely to Asia-Pacific markets then impacts on airlines from other regions would be larger," the authority said. Airlines have already started to feel the pain. Qantas Airlines (QABSY) said on Thursday that the virus could carve up to $100 million of pre-tax profit from the second half of the company's fiscal year. Air France-KLM (AFLYY) also said on Thursday that the virus could slash its earnings by as much as $216 million between February and April.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-05T14:58:10Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/05/business/china-flights-travel-coronavirus-outbreak/index.html
author: Michelle Toh and Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: China flights: How airlines are reacting to coronavirus - CNN
description : Airlines around the world have responded to the coronavirus outbreak by suspending flights to and from China, severely disrupting travel by tourists and business executives in one of the world's busiest aviation markets. 
keywords : business, China flights: How airlines are reacting to coronavirus - CNN
content: Here's a roundup of some major airlines that have suspended or reduced their flights to mainland China:North AmericaAmerican Airlines - Flights between Dallas and Los Angeles and mainland China, and between Los Angeles and Hong Kong suspended through April 24; Dallas-Hong Kong routes suspended through April 23 United Airlines - Suspended until April 24Delta - Suspended until April 30Air Canada - Suspended until February 29Asia and OceaniaAir Asia - Some flights suspended until February 29 All Nippon - Some flights suspended until March 29Cathay Pacific and Cathay Dragon - 90% reduction in flights Japan Airlines - Some flights suspended until March 28Korean Air - Some flights suspended until the end of MarchSingapore Airlines and SilkAir - Some flights suspended until March 1Qantas - Suspended until March 29Air New Zealand - Suspended until March 29Europe and the Middle EastAir France - Beijing and Shanghai flights suspended through March 15; Wuhan flights resume March 29British Airways - Suspended until February 29Virgin Atlantic - London-Shanghai flights suspended until March 28Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines - Beijing and Shanghai flights suspended until February 29; other routes until March 28Turkish Airlines - Suspended until the end of FebruaryEtihad - Some flights suspended from February 5; service continues to BeijingEmirates - Some flights suspended from February 5; service continues to BeijingQatar Airways - Suspended until further noticeFinnair - Beijing and Shanghai flights suspended until February 29; other routes to March 29KLM - Beijing and Shanghai flights suspended through March 15; other routes through March 28 Iberia - Suspended until February 29
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-05T16:24:15Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/05/business/nike-adidas-versace-china-coronavirus/index.html
author: Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: Nike, Adidas and Versace: The coronavirus is hitting big consumer and fashion brands - CNN
description : Faced with shuttered stores and empty streets, big consumer brands and fashion houses are getting nervous about the impact of the coronavirus on their businesses.
keywords : business, Nike, Adidas and Versace: The coronavirus is hitting big consumer and fashion brands - CNN
content: Nike (NKE), Adidas (ADDDF) and Capri Holdings, which owns Versace, Jimmy Choo and Michael Kors, are among the companies this week that have warned investors that sales could take a hit as the virus spreads across China."The situation in China and the measures being taken to protect the population are having a material impact on our business," John Idol, the CEO of Capri Holdings, said in a statement Wednesday. The coronavirus outbreak has killed nearly 500 people and infected more than 24,500 more — mainly in China, where close to 60 million people are living in cities on lockdown.Retailers are shutting their doors as efforts to contain the virus ramp up and would-be shoppers stay home. Roughly 150 of Capri's stores in mainland China are closed, according to the company. Nike said it has shuttered about half of the stores it owns in China, while Adidas said the company and its franchisees had shut a "significant" number of shops.Nike and Capri Holdings said the stores that do remain open are operating with reduced hours and seeing fewer shoppers."In the short term, we expect the situation to have a material impact on our operations in Greater China," Nike said in a statement Tuesday, though it noted that its online business has shown "continued strength."Nearly 18% of Nike's sales came from the greater China region in the most recent quarter. CEO John Donahoe told CNBC Wednesday the company's "first priority as a company is to unequivocally tend to our partners in China and consumers."Adidas said it was "too early to assess the magnitude" of the impact at this point. But Capri Holdings told investors that it expects the coronavirus to reduce revenue by $100 million this quarter, and warned the hit could be bigger if "the severity of the situation worsens."The companies join a growing list of global brands that have decided to limit operations in China, despite their reliance on the country for growth. Apple (AAPL) has said all 42 of its stores in China will shut until February 9 "out of an abundance of caution." Starbucks (SBUX) said it had closed more than half of its roughly 4,300 Chinese locations last week.Retailers are starting to worry that their businesses outside China will be affected as well. Capri Holdings warned that its sales and profit could suffer even more if additional travel restrictions are put in place and there's a drop in spending by Chinese tourists abroad.Jefferies analysts point to Tiffany & Co. (TIF), which is being bought by LVMH (LVMHF), Macy's (M) and Coach (TPR) as companies that could be damaged by declining tourism from the region into the United States.Such a dip in Chinese tourists seems inevitable as airlines cancel flights. American Airlines (AAL) has suspended all flights between the United States and mainland China through March 27, while Delta Air Lines (DAL) has said it won't fly from the United States to China through April 30.Hong Kong carrier Cathay Pacific (CPCAY) said Wednesday that it was slashing flights to mainland China by 90% and making significant reductions elsewhere in its network over the next two months. The total number of flights will be reduced by 30%.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-05T11:08:17Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/05/business/coronavirus-airline-cost/index.html
author: Analysis by Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Global airlines took a $7 billion hit from SARS. The coronavirus outbreak will likely be much worse - CNN
description : The airline industry is bracing for huge financial losses, as a growing number of carriers suspend flights to China because of the escalating Wuhan coronavirus outbreak. Analysts say the hit to the aviation industry will be worse than the 2003 SARS outbreak, which cost airlines some $7 billion in revenue.  
keywords : business, Global airlines took a $7 billion hit from SARS. The coronavirus outbreak will likely be much worse - CNN
content: The outbreak of the disease has already killed 492 people worldwide, mostly in China, and infected more than 24,500 people across 25 countries.In response, more than a dozen major airlines have canceled flights to and from mainland China. Several countries have also banned entry to foreigners who have traveled to China, while others have told their citizens not to travel there, or to leave if they can.The last time the aviation industry faced this kind of crisis was back in 2003, when the SARS outbreak cost Asia Pacific carriers $6 billion in revenue, according to the International Air Transport Authority (IATA). North American airlines lost $1 billion, while European carriers largely escaped unscathed, analysts say. It took nine months before international passenger traffic returned to normal, IATA said.The coronavirus will "definitely" surpass that $7 billion SARS hit, said Ivan Su, an analyst with financial services firm Morningstar.The global aviation industry, which generated $838 billion in revenue last year, will lose more money this time around for several reasons: The number of Chinese air travelers has ballooned since 2003. Chinese carriers, and the industry as a whole, are bigger now than before. And flight suspensions and travel advisories could last longer than they did during SARS, which would weigh on international airlines.A massive aviation marketAround 660 million Chinese passengers traveled by air in 2019 — more than seven times as many as in 2003, according to state news agency Xinhua and Fitch Ratings. The vast majority of those trips are for domestic travel. The boom in China far outpaced the global increase in passenger numbers, which grew from 1.7 billion in 2003 to 4.2 billion in 2018, according to the World Bank.When SARS hit, global passenger traffic fell by 18.5% in April 2003 compared to a year earlier, with a drop of almost 45% in Asia-Pacific, Fitch ratings agency said in a report lat week.This time around, the drop could be far worse. The coronavirus outbreak hit just as China was preparing for the Lunar New Year, its most significant holiday. Millions of Chinese scrapped travel plans as Beijing took the extraordinary step of placing entire cities on lockdown to contain the virus. Officials said last month that air travel on the first day of the holiday period fell more than 41% compared to a year ago. Lunar New Year aside, China has also become much more important to the global aviation industry. It is currently the world's second-largest civil aviation market, behind the United States, hauling in 1.06 trillion yuan ($151 billion) in revenue last year, according to Xinhua. Major Chinese carriers Air China (AIRYY), China Southern (ZNH) and China Eastern (CEA) "have grown easily five to sixfold compared to 2003, when they were just very, very small compared to the rest of international carriers," said Shukor Yusof, head of aviation consulting firm Endau Analytics in Malaysia. China Southern, the country's biggest airline, reported 43.7 billion yuan ($6.2 billion) in revenue in the third quarter last year. By comparison, Delta (DAL) — the top US carrier — reported revenue of $12.6 billion for the same period.Restrictions and cancellations Extensive travel restrictions will also weigh on international carriers. "Airlines are more impacted today because China is the world's economic engine," Yusof said, adding that the sweeping flight cancellations made by American Airlines (AAL), Air Canada (ACDVF), British Airways and others are "unprecedented." "This [outbreak] should be worse as travel bans have started early and it seems they will remain in force for a long period of time," said Alicia Garcia Herrero, chief economist for Asia Pacific at Natixis. During SARS, the World Health Organization issued its first emergency travel advisory about the illness in mid-March of 2003, nearly five months after the first reported cases began to emerge. The agency lifted travel advisories against Hong Kong and Beijing in May and June of that year respectively, once the outbreak had been contained in those hubs.  Most flight cancellations during SARS lasted roughly two months, according to Su of Morningstar. Hong Kong's flagship carrier Cathay Pacific (CPCAY) was among the hardest hit. At the height of the SARS outbreak, Cathay canceled 42% of its flights due to travel fears, and saw its daily passenger load fall to about 10,000 from 33,000. On Tuesday, the company announced it would cut flights by 30% worldwide for two months, including a 90% reduction in flights to mainland China during that time. The company's stock has fallen more than 11% so far this year.-- Serenitie Wang and Steven Jiang contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-05T11:41:14Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/05/business/cathay-pacific-coronavirus/index.html
author: Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Cathay Pacific asks employees to take 3 weeks off without pay amid coronavirus outbreak - CNN
description : Cathay Pacific is asking its 27,000 employees to take three weeks of unpaid leave in the coming months, the latest in a series of emergency measures forced on the embattled Hong Kong carrier by the coronavirus outbreak in China. 
keywords : business, Cathay Pacific asks employees to take 3 weeks off without pay amid coronavirus outbreak - CNN
content: The airline said in a statement Wednesday that it was appealing to all workers to take three weeks unpaid leave between March 1 and the end of June, citing a "significant" drop in demand for flights caused by the virus. "Preserving cash is the key to protecting our business," said the airline, which took similar measures during the global financial crisis and the 2003 outbreak of SARS. Cathay Pacific (CPCAY), which also owns budget carrier Cathay Dragon, announced Tuesday that it was slashing flights to mainland China by 90% and making significant reductions elsewhere in its network over the next two months. Taken together, the total number of flights will be reduced by 30%.The flagship airline has already endured months of turmoil caused by mass protests in Hong Kong. Demonstrations at the city's airport last year forced Cathay Pacific to cancel hundreds of flights, and its CEO resigned after the carrier was caught up in a political firestorm over the participation of employees in the pro-democracy movement. Demand for flights to Hong Kong remains weak, the company warned earlier this month, saying the number of inbound passengers to the city had been cut in half in December compared to a year earlier. In a statement, the company acknowledged that 2019 had been an "incredibly challenging" year. Shares in Cathay Pacific rallied on Wednesday, but the stock has dropped by nearly 12% so far in 2020. Shares have lost more than a quarter of their value since hitting a recent high in April 2019.Global airlines have been hit hard by the coronavirus outbreak, and many carriers have suspended flights to mainland China. British Airways (ICAGY), Air Asia, Delta (DAL), United (UAL), American (AAL), Air India, Lufthansa (DLAKF) and Finnair are among the airlines that have slashed the number of flights to China or have stopped flying to the country entirely. — Michelle Toh contributed reporting.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-31T17:07:07Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/31/business/american-delta-united-flights-coronavirus/index.html
author: Jordan Valinsky, CNN Business
headline: American Airlines, Delta and United suspend most US to China flights amid coronavirus outbreak - CNN
description : Three of the largest US airlines -- Delta, American and United -- have canceled more flights between the United States and China because of concerns about the spread of coronavirus. 
keywords : business, American Airlines, Delta and United suspend most US to China flights amid coronavirus outbreak - CNN
content: For American Airlines, the nation's largest carrier, the decision comes after the union representing 15,000 pilots sued the company Thursday to immediately halt its US-China service, citing "serious, and in many ways still unknown, health threats posed by the coronavirus."American (AAL) moved up its planned suspension of flights between the United States and mainland China beginning Friday. It had originally announced that flights between Los Angeles and Shanghai and Los Angeles and Beijing would be suspended from February 9. Its Hong Kong flights will continue to operate."Based on the U.S. Department of State's recent increase of the China Travel Advisory to a Level 4 (Do Not Travel), American is suspending its operations to and from the Chinese mainland beginning today through March 27," American said in a statement. The union applauded the move. "Now that American is ceasing operations in China, the ultimate goal is that all our passengers and crew will remain safe and that was our main goal," Captain Dennis Tajer, a spokesperson for the Allied Pilots Association, told CNN Business. Delta said Friday it was suspending all flights from the United States to China from February 6 until April 30. The airline said it's continuing routes until February 5 to "ensure customers looking to exit China have options to do so." It said that it will "continue to monitor the situation closely" and adjust its schedule accordingly. Affected customers can request a refund, rebook their flight after the suspension lifts or speak with an agent for other options. Delta (DAL) currently operates 42 weekly flights between the United States and China, including daily service connecting Beijing and Detroit and Seattle, and Shanghai and Atlanta, Detroit, Los Angeles and Seattle.United Airlines (UAL) also said Friday it was suspending flights from is US hub cities and Beijing, Chengdu and Shanghai from February 6 to March 28. Until next week, the carrier will "operate select flights to help ensure our US-based employees, as well as customers, have options to return home," it said in a statement. On Tuesday, United said it was suspending operations to Hong Kong because of a drop in demand. Operations will be suspended Feb. 8-Feb. 20, the airline said."Our last flights will depart San Francisco on February 5 (flight 877 and flight 869) and the last returning flight will depart Hong Kong on February 7 (flight 862)," the airline said in a statement on its website.The coronavirus, a potentially fatal respiratory disease, first emerged in Wuhan, China in early December and has since spread across China and appeared in some other countries, including the United States, Japan and India. The World Health Organization has declared the coronavirus epidemic a public health emergency of international concern.Fears over the spread of the disease has forced both US and global carriers to amend their schedules as demand for China travel declines. British Airways, Air Asia, Cathay Pacific, Air India, IndiGo, Lufthansa and Finnair have announced plans this week to slash the number of flights they are operating to China or stop flying to the country entirely. Other airlines are offering customers refunds.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-30T21:13:08Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/30/business/american-airlines-pilots-coronavirus/index.html
author: Shannon Liao, CNN Business
headline: American Airlines pilots sue to halt US-China flights amid coronavirus outbreak
 - CNN
description : The Allied Pilots Association, a union representing 15,000 American Airlines pilots, has sued the company to halt the carrier's U.S.-China service, citing "serious, and in many ways still unknown, health threats posed by the coronavirus."
keywords : business, American Airlines pilots sue to halt US-China flights amid coronavirus outbreak
 - CNN
content: The union asked the court in Dallas County for a temporary and immediate restraining order halting the flights as the virus spreads."The safety and well-being of our crews and passengers must always be our highest priority — first, last, and always," APA President Capt. Eric Ferguson said in a statement. "Numerous other major carriers that serve China, including British Airways, Air Canada, and Lufthansa, have chosen to suspend service to that country out of an abundance of caution."The coronavirus, a potentially fatal respiratory disease, first emerged in Wuhan, China in early December and has since spread across China and appeared in some other countries, including the United States, Japan and India. The World Health Organization has declared the coronavirus epidemic a public health emergency of international concern, after an emergency committee convened Thursday in Geneva. The current number of coronavirus cases in China has exceeded the number of SARS infections worldwide during the 2002-2003 epidemic. As of Thursday, there are over 8,000 confirmed cases of Wuhan coronavirus in mainland China. The death toll is 171.American Airlines (AAL) on Wednesday suspended two routes from Los Angeles to mainland China between February 9 and March 27 due to "significant decline in demand." The pilots' lawsuit said the airline hasn't taken any action to cancel or suspend flights before February 9 and they want immediate action taken on flights from American's larget hub, Dallas-Forth Worth. The suit also says that the average age of the Dallas-Fort Worth-based captains is 61, and that older adults are at higher risk of becoming seriously ill after contracting coronavirus.American Airlines said Thursday that it is aware of the filing."We are in close contact with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and global public health officials to make sure we are taking all necessary precautions for our customers and team members," the airline said in a statement to CNN Business. "Yesterday, American announced the suspension of travel between LAX and Shanghai Pudong Airport (PVG) as well as LAX and Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK) from Feb. 9 through Mar. 27, 2020"The airline said it will "continue to monitor the situation and make any updates as needed."The union noted in a statement that American Airlines currently operates about 56 monthly flights between Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport and Chinese airports. Ferguson, the APA president, added that he estimated as many as 300 passengers and crew travel from China to Dallas-Forth Worth on each flight and "to us, that level of risk is unacceptable."Ferguson said the union was also instructing all American Airline pilots to decline any assignments to operate flights between the United States and China. The suit also asks for damages, attorney's fees and more.- A previous version of this article provided the incorrect day American Airlines suspended routes from Los Angeles to mainland China.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-29T15:24:04Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/29/business/american-airlines-suspends-china-flights-coronavirus/index.html
author: Jordan Valinsky, CNN Business
headline: American Airlines suspends two routes to China as coronavirus spreads - CNN
description : American Airlines is the second US carrier to suspend some of its flights to China as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread and shrinks demand.
keywords : business, American Airlines suspends two routes to China as coronavirus spreads - CNN
content: The airline is canceling two routes between February 9 and March 27 because of "significant decline in demand." The canceled flights include those between Los Angeles and Shanghai (PVG) and Los Angeles and Bejing (PEK). American Airlines (AAL) will continue to operate service to Hong Kong from its Dallas-Fort Worth and Los Angeles hubs. Passengers on the affected flights will be notified by the airline for rebooking options. United Airlines (UAL) announced Tuesday is was suspending some flights between three Chinese cities and its US hubs. The airline said in a statement that the cancellations are because of a "significant decline in demand." Some United flights between February 1 and February 8 have been canceled. In total, United canceled 24 round trip routes. They are between Hong Kong to San Francisco and Newark; Beijing (PEK) to Washington Dulles, Chicago O'Hare and Newark; and Shanghai (PVG) to San Francisco, Newark and Chicago O'Hare.Global airlines are also adjusting their schedules. British Airways, Air Canada (ACDVF), Air Asia, Air India and Finland's Finnair have all suspended some flights between China and their respective countries. Qatar Airways and Malaysia Airlines have not suspended flights, but passengers and crew traveling from China will be subjected to additional screening at airports.Delta Air Lines (DAL), Virgin Atlantic, Lufthansa, Air France-KLM (AFLYY), and Austrian Airlines said they are monitoring developments but continue to fly to China.As of Wednesday, there were 6,061 confirmed cases of the virus in mainland China, including 132 deaths, according to Chinese officials. The number of cases grew by around 1,500 from Tuesday, a more than 30% increase. The figures do not include Hong Kong and Macau, both of which have reported a small number of cases.There have also been at least 91 cases of the virus reported outside mainland China.-- CNN's James Griffiths contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-28T19:19:10Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/28/business/united-airlines-china-flight-cancellations/index.html
author: Jordan Valinsky, CNN Business
headline: United Airlines suspends some flights between US and China as coronavirus spreads - CNN
description : United Airlines is temporarily reducing its schedule between the United States and three cities in China in light of the Wuhan virus. 
keywords : business, United Airlines suspends some flights between US and China as coronavirus spreads - CNN
content: The airline said in a statement that "significant decline in demand" has forced it to suspend flights from February 1 though February 8 between its US hubs and Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai.In total, 24 round trips are affected. They are between Hong Kong to San Francisco and Newark; Beijing (PEK) to Washington Dulles, Chicago O'Hare and Newark; and Shanghai (PVG) to San Francisco, Newark and Chicago O'Hare. "We will continue to monitor the situation as it develops and will adjust our schedule as needed," the airline said.It's the most drastic action yet by a US airline as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread. American Airlines (AAL), Delta Air Lines (DAL) and United (UAL) all extended change fee waivers through the end of February.  Neither American or Delta has made any changes to their flight schedules, but both companies told CNN Business they continue to closely monitor the situation. Meanwhile, the coronavirus continues to spread. More than 100 people have died and more than 4,500 cases have been confirmed in mainland China, according to health officials in the country. Dozens of others have been infected worldwide, including at least five cases in the United States.The Centers for Disease Control has said it is now monitoring for symptoms of the virus among passengers arriving at 20 US airports.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-28T09:21:44Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/28/business/delta-american-united-coronavirus-wuhan-china/index.html
author: Rob McLean, CNN Business
headline: US airlines offer change fee waivers in light of coronavirus outbreak - CNN
description : US airlines are giving customers more time to change their flights to China without penalty as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread, and as American authorities raise travel precautions for the country.
keywords : business, US airlines offer change fee waivers in light of coronavirus outbreak - CNN
content: American Airlines (AAL) and Delta Air Lines (DAL) on Monday each extended change fee waivers through the end of February. Earlier, they had issued waivers through the end of January.That means people scheduled to fly before then on either airline to Beijing or Shanghai — the two cities that each company serves in mainland China — can change to a different flight without paying a fee to do so.United Airlines (UAL) also extended waivers for change fees on flights to Beijing, Shanghai or Chengdu through the end of February. Last week, it offered waivers through February 7.United is also offering refunds to passengers traveling to Wuhan if they bought their ticket by January 21 and are expected to travel there from now until March 29.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Monday raised its travel precaution for China to its highest level. That means it's advising travelers to "avoid nonessential travel" to the country. Previously, only Hubei province — where Wuhan is located — carried such a warning.The coronavirus has continued to spread. More than 100 people are dead and more than 4,500 cases have been confirmed in mainland China, according to health officials in the country. Dozens of others have been infected worldwide, including at least five cases in the United States. The CDC has said it is now monitoring for symptoms of the virus among passengers arriving at 20 US airports.The agency has also announced enhanced screening of passengers from Wuhan at five airports: John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, San Francisco International Airport, Los Angeles International Airport, Chicago's O'Hare International Airport and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport.On Monday, a health official with the CDC said the agency had screened about 2,400 people so far. — CNN's Dave Alsup and Michael Nedelman contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-29T08:16:27Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/29/business/british-airways-coronavirus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham and Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: British Airways and other carriers suspend flights to China as coronavirus spreads - CNN
description : British Airways and other carriers in North America, Europe and Asia are canceling flights to China as authorities there seek to contain the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus.
keywords : business, British Airways and other carriers suspend flights to China as coronavirus spreads - CNN
content: British Airways, United Airlines, American Airlines, Air Asia, Cathay Pacific, Air India, IndiGo, Lufthansa and Finnair have announced plans to slash the number of flights they are operating to China or stop flying to the country entirely. Other airlines are offering customers refunds.Airlines are taking action as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread. The virus has killed 132 people and infected over 6,000 people in China so far, with dozens more cases confirmed in places such as the United States, Japan, Germany and France. British Airways, which is owned by International Airlines Group (ICAGY), said Wednesday that it has suspended all direct flights between Britain and China with immediate effect after the UK Foreign Office warned against all but essential travel to China. The carrier operates two daily direct flights from London to China — one to Beijing (PKX) and one to Shanghai (PVG). The airline said it had suspended the flights until January 31 while it assesses the situation, but they were unavailable to book online through February 29. Passengers can still book BA flights to mainland China via connections in cities such as Hong Kong. The carrier's move comes a day after United Airlines (UAL) temporarily reduced its schedule between the United States and three cities in China. The US airline said in a statement Tuesday that "significant decline in demand" had forced it to suspend flights from February 1 through February 8 between its US hubs and Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai.In total, 24 round trips are affected: Hong Kong to San Francisco and Newark; Beijing (PEK) to Washington Dulles, Chicago O'Hare and Newark; and Shanghai (PVG) to San Francisco, Newark and Chicago O'Hare.On Wednesday, American Airlines became the second US carrier to suspend some of its flights to China due to a drop off in demand. The airline said it is canceling flights from Los Angeles to Shanghai (PVG) and Beijing (PEK) from February 9 through March 27. It will continue to fly to Hong Kong from its Dallas-Fort Worth and Los Angeles hubs.American Airlines (AAL), Delta Air Lines (DAL) and United all extended change fee waivers through the end of February. The Hong Kong government said in a statement that four local airlines, including flagship carrier Cathay Pacific (CPCAY), would gradually reduce the number of flights between the city and 24 destinations in China from 480 flights per week to 240 per week. The reduction will be in effect "until further notice."Air Canada (ACDVF), which has 33 weekly flights to China, has also canceled select flights due to a reduction in demand. A spokeswoman for Germany's national carrier, Lufthansa, said it has canceled all flights to and from China until February 9, and suspended bookings until the end of February. These measures also apply to its subsidiaries, Swiss International Airlines and Austrian Airlines. Flights to and from Hong Kong continue to operate normally. Air Asia (AIABF), which has flights from Thailand and Malaysia to Wuhan, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak, said it has suspended all flights to the city until February 29. Air India said on Twitter that its flight between Shanghai (PVG) and Mumbai, which goes via Delhi, has been canceled from January 31 to February 14. IndiGo, its rival, has suspended flights from Delhi to Chengdu (CTU) from February 1 until February 20 due to a high number of cancellations by customers. The airline is also suspending flights from Bengaluru to Hong Kong starting next month. Finland's Finnair is canceling three weekly flights between Helsinki and Beijing (PKX) between February 5 and March 29, and two weekly flights between Helsinki and Nanjing (NKG) between February 8 and March 29, because of the suspension of group travel by Chinese authorities. It will continue to operate flights to Beijing (PEK), Shanghai (PVG), Hong Kong (HKG) and Guangzhou (CAN).Qatar Airways and Malaysia Airlines have not suspended flights, but passengers and crew traveling from China will be subjected to additional screening at airports. Virgin Atlantic and Air France-KLM (AFLYY) said they are monitoring developments but continue to fly to China.— Jordan Valinsky, Stephanie Halasz, Hanna Ziady, Anna Stewart and Nadine Schmidt contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-29T13:57:15Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/29/business/jack-ma-coronavirus-vaccine/index.html
author: Laura He and Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Alibaba's Jack Ma donates $14 million to develop coronavirus vaccine - CNN
description : Jack Ma, Alibaba founder and China's richest man, has donated 100 million yuan ($14.4 million) through his foundation to help find a vaccine for the Wuhan coronavirus. 
keywords : business, Alibaba's Jack Ma donates $14 million to develop coronavirus vaccine - CNN
content: The billionaire has earmarked 40 million yuan ($5.8 million) for two Chinese government research organizations, according to a social media post from the Jack Ma Foundation. The remainder of the funds will be used to support "prevention and treatment" measures, the foundation said.The donation follows an announcement on Saturday by Alibaba that it is setting up a 1 billion yuan ($144 million) fund to buy medical supplies for Wuhan and Hubei province, the epicenter of the virus outbreak.The company is also offering free AI computing power to scientific research organizations to support the search for a vaccine or treatments.Alibaba is one of a host of Chinese technology companies donating funds to coronavirus treatment efforts, according to state-owned newspaper China Daily. Others include telecom equipment and smartphone maker Huawei, e-commerce company Tencent (TCEHY), search engine Baidu (BIDU), TikTok owner ByteDance and food delivery firm, Meituan-Dianping.   Scientists in the United States and China are among those working on a vaccine.But it may be more than a year until a vaccine is available, according to Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the US National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. The virus has killed at least 132 people, with nearly 6,000 cases confirmed in mainland China. More than 80 cases have been confirmed elsewhere, including in the United States and Australia. — Elizabeth Cohen contributed reporting.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-27T09:40:28Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/27/business/coronavirus-business-closures/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Global businesses are feeling the effects of the coronavirus - CNN
description : Major shops, restaurants and tourist destinations are shuttering their doors across China, as global businesses begin to feel the effects of the deadly Wuhan virus outbreak. 
keywords : business, Global businesses are feeling the effects of the coronavirus - CNN
content: Chinese officials on Monday announced that the death toll from the coronavirus has risen to 80, with nearly 2,800 cases confirmed in mainland China and several dozen more in countries such as the United States, Australia and Japan. With over 57 million people in 15 cities across China on lockdown, the crisis is hitting the retail, travel and tourism industries particularly hard during the peak Lunar New Year season.Companies say they are following cues from officials, which means the pain could last past the holiday season. Beijing has already extended the Lunar New Year holiday from January 30 to February 2 to try and prevent the spread of the virus. A government official told reporters Monday that authorities are considering a further extension. Here's what some major companies are doing to try and contain the outbreak.Starbucks (SBUX) announced over the weekend that it is closing shops and suspending delivery services in the city of Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, and the wider Hubei Province. The coffee chain operates 90 shops in the central Chinese province, according to the company's website. KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants are also closed in the city of Wuhan until further notice. Parent company Yum China (YUMC) says that it will continue to evaluate the need for "additional actions." McDonald's (MCD) has shut restaurants in Wuhan and four other cities in Hubei. Disney (DIS) has closed its parks in Shanghai and Hong Kong, just as the resorts were gearing up to usher in what it called the "Year of the Mouse," a play on China's Year of the Rat. Disney had put up new Chinese New Year-themed decorations throughout the parks, launched new merchandise and introduced several Lunar New Year dining options.Shares in luxury goods companies have taken a hit on concerns about lower sales during what is usually a busy shopping season. The stocks of LVMH (LVMHF), Kering (PPRUF) and Cartier watch maker Richemont all fell more than 5% last week.Companies with a large presence in Wuhan are also preparing for trouble. Renault (RNLSY), one of several automakers with a major manufacturing plant in the city, said last week that it was "studying carefully" the issue. Automotive factories, like other businesses, were already closed for the holidays.Peugeot (PUGOY) tweeted Saturday that it will repatriate its expat staff and their families from"the Wuhan region." "At the same time, the group and its Chinese partner are mobilized to implement measures to take care of the Chinese employees of their joint venture," it added. The coronavirus outreak comes "at probably the worst time for China," said Jude Blanchette, head of China studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. The Lunar New Year "is the single biggest economic event in China where last year there was upwards of $150 billion spent during the period, so the economic implications could be significant," he told CNN last week.The period marks the largest annual human migration on Earth, during which time hundreds of millions of Chinese travelers usually cram themselves into homebound trains, buses and planes for family reunions. The coronavirus outbreak has prompted millions to rethink those plans. The overall number of trips made across China on Saturday, the first day of the Lunar New Year period, plunged nearly 30% from a year ago, Liu Xiaoming, vice minister for transport, told reporters on Sunday. Travel by plane and train fell more than 41%, he added. Major hotel chains including IHG (GXMLF), Marriott (MAR) and Accor (ACCYY) said they will waive cancellation fees until February 8 for reservations at hotels in China and beyond. Airline operators including Cathay (CPCAY) and Qantas (QABSY) said they will offer full refunds for passengers traveling to and froms China from January 24 until the end of February.  China's largest travel agency Trip.com (TCOM), also known as CTrip, said last week that it would offer customers free cancellations on all hotels, car rental services and tickets for tourist attractions in Wuhan until January 31. The stock dropped 18% last week in New York.Trip.com's business "in the short-term, it will take a hit," Jane Sun told CNN in an interview on the sidelines of the Davos conference last week. But she anticipates that once the crisis is over, business will rebound thanks to pent-up demand. The business woes come as the pace of China's economic growth is hitting historic lows and the country continues to suffer from the effects of the trade war with the United States. The Wuhan coronavirus outbreak is already spurring people to hunker down and avoid going outside. That kind of behavior could deal a huge blow to the service sector, which now accounts for about 52% of the Chinese economy.-- Paul LaMonica, Cristina Alesci, Clare Sebastian, Richard Quest and Alexandra Lin contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-28T22:26:58Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/28/business/starbucks-earnings-china-closures/index.html
author: Danielle Wiener-Bronner, CNN Business
headline: Starbucks has closed more than half of its Chinese stores because of coronavirus - CNN
description : Starbucks has closed more than half of its roughly 4,300 Chinese stores, as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread in the country. 
keywords : business, Starbucks has closed more than half of its Chinese stores because of coronavirus - CNN
content: The company said Tuesday it is continuing to "monitor and modify the operating hours of all of our stores in the market," in light of the outbreak."This is expected to be temporary," Starbucks added.Over the weekend, the company said that it was closing shops and suspending delivery services in the city of Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, and the wider Hubei Province. John Culver, the company's international president, said that the "situation accelerated" over the past few weeks, adding that Starbucks is evaluating closures "each and every day." Stores that are open still offer delivery but may have a more limited menu, based on supply chain constraints, and different hours, he said.The Wuhan Coronavirus has so far killed more than 100 people and infected thousands. It has reached more than 17 countries.  CEO Kevin Johnson promised transparency into the company's response to the "extraordinary circumstances," in a statement Tuesday. "We remain optimistic and committed to the long-term opportunity in China," he added. Johnson noted in a call with investors that Starbucks is prioritizing the health of customers and employees and working with officials to help contain the virus. An important marketChina is one of Starbucks (SBUX)' leading growth markets, along with the United States. In the first quarter, sales at Chinese stores open at least 13 months grew 3%. McDonald's has been expanding rapidly in the country, opening about 600 stores last year. Digital sales grew in China as well, jumping to 15% of total revenue — up from 10% the past quarter. About 9% came from delivery, and 6% from pickup and mobile orders. It's not clear how the closures will affect business, the company said. China accounted for 10% of global revenues in the quarter. Still, Starbucks does expect to take a hit in the second quarter and fiscal year 2020, and plans to update its guidance once it can better evaluate the impact. The company's stock dipped slightly after the bell Tuesday. Starbucks said that prior to the closures, it was expecting to raise its financial forecast for the year because of its strong first-quarter results. Sales at US stores open at least a year grew 6% during that period. Global companies have been responding to the outbreak with store closures and increased safety measures. McDonald's (MCD) said on Friday that it had closed locations in five cities to and from which the Chinese government restricted travel. McDonald's said open stores were following strict hygiene practices. KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants also closed in the city of Wuhan. And Disney (DIS) has closed its parks in Shanghai and Hong Kong. New menu itemsTo help bring in US customers, Starbucks is leaning into plant-based dairy and protein alternatives. Earlier this month, Starbucks added an oat milk latte to the menu in about 1,300 locations in the Midwest. Roz Brewer, Starbucks' chief operating officer, said that more alternative dairy drinks are coming. And the chain is introducing a breakfast sandwich made with a plant-based patty in the United States and Canada this year, she added. — CNN Business' Sherisse Pham contributed to this report. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-24T15:26:41Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/24/business/mcdonalds-coronavirus-closures/index.html
author: Danielle Wiener-Bronner, CNN Business
headline: McDonald's closes restaurants in five Chinese cities because of the coronavirus  - CNN
description : McDonald's has closed restaurants in five Chinese cities and is implementing new health protocols in the region as the deadly coronavirus continues to spread. 
keywords : business, McDonald's closes restaurants in five Chinese cities because of the coronavirus  - CNN
content: On Friday, the company shuttered locations in Wuhan, Ezhou, Huanggang, Qianjiang and Xiantao — all cities that have been impacted by the Chinese government's travel restrictions, company spokesperson Barry Sum told CNN Business in an email. At least 10 cities in central Hubei province are facing travel restrictions, including Wuhan, where this strain of coronavirus originated. "McDonald's restaurant operation in Hubei province runs normally in cities where public transportation is available," Sum said. "Staff and customers' safety is our first priority and we have comprehensive, precautious measures being implemented to all restaurant operations and office staff." It's not clear when the affected restaurants will reopen.At least 800 people have been infected with the virus, which has killed dozens. The respiratory infection has spread to Japan, Thailand and the United States, among other countries. Major cities including Beijing have canceled some or all major Lunar New Year celebrations in an attempt to prevent more illness and death. McDonald's (MCD) "will maintain close communication with local health and other relevant authorities, actively implement any guidance by medical authorities for containment of the virus, and continue to work together to fight this epidemic," Sum said. In addition to suspending service, McDonald's is also enacting strict new standards to monitor employees for signs of the infection. The company shared on its Chinese social media platforms that "all restaurants are required to commence a system of measuring body temperatures of all crews upon arrival at work," adding that it has "established a reporting, recording and observation mechanism for employees traveling to and from Wuhan during the New Year Spring Festival." Employees with fevers or cold symptoms are to be sent home. Additionally, workers will start wearing masks and are being instructed to wash their hands and use disinfectants more frequently.The chain is also placing hand sanitizers in stores for customer use, increasing the frequency of cleanings in stores and instructing suppliers to take safety precautions, as well. McDonald's is betting big on China as a growth market. During an October call discussing the company's third-quarter earnings, former CEO Steve Easterbrook pointed to China as one of the best-performing international markets. During the quarter, he said, more customers went to Chinese restaurants and spent more compared to the year before. Chinese customers responded especially well to McDonald's digital initiatives, he added. Other global businesses are responding to the outbreak, as well. Shanghai Disney Resort is closing its doors during the holiday "in response to the prevention and control of the disease outbreak." It's not clear when the park will reopen.  -— CNN Business' Sherisse Pham contributed to this report. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-07T11:02:43Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/07/business/starbucks-oat-milk/index.html
author: Danielle Wiener-Bronner, CNN Business
headline: Starbucks is bringing oat milk lattes to the Midwest - CNN
description : After years of buzzy growth, oat milk is coming to Starbucks. 
keywords : business, Starbucks is bringing oat milk lattes to the Midwest - CNN
content: Starting Tuesday, about 1,300 Starbucks cafes in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri and Wisconsin are serving a new oat milk honey latte. Customers who visit those locations will also be able to substitute oat milk for milk in other beverages. Up until now, Starbucks (SBUX) has only offered oat milk at a handful of its US locations. The company started serving oat milk in Europe in 2018. It's also adding two new non-dairy espresso drinks to its national menu: an almond milk honey flat white and a coconut milk latte. Consumer interest in oat mlik has been growing rapidly.  US oat milk sales jumped 222% between April 2018 and April 2019, according to the Good Food Institute — a nonprofit that supports plant-based businesses. But oat milk still represents a small slice of all plant-based milk sales. In the year ending in April 2019, oat milk sales amounted to $15 million. Almond milk sales, on the other hand, reached $1.2 billion. Altogether, plant-based milk brought in $1.9 billion during the period.Demand for cow's milk, on the other hand, has been declining for years. In 2010, 55 billion pounds of milk were sold in the United States. By 2018, that figure dropped to 47.7 billion, a decline of about 13%. Over the past few months, two of the largest milk processors in the United States have filed for bankruptcy. Starbucks' new products could be a way to give people what they want while simplifying orders for baristas. Custom orders with non-dairy milk have increased, the company noted. And if it mirrors the performance of plant-based meat at restaurant chains, the new products could also help drum up sales. Burger King, for example, attributed its impressive third-quarter performance in part to the success of the Impossible Whopper. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-06T13:27:06Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/06/business/borden-dairy-bankruptcy/index.html
author: Chris Isidore, CNN Business
headline: Borden Dairy becomes second major milk producer to file for bankruptcy in recent months - CNN
description : Borden Dairy Co., one of America's oldest and largest dairy companies, on Monday became the second major milk producer to file for bankruptcy in the last two months.
keywords : business, Borden Dairy becomes second major milk producer to file for bankruptcy in recent months - CNN
content: Tumbling milk consumption combined with the rising price of milk have crippled the dairy industry with debt. Dean Foods, America's largest milk producer, filed for bankruptcy November 12.Borden said it filed for bankruptcy because it cannot afford its debt load and its pension obligations. It has 3,300 employees, 22% of whom are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The company said it also has been hurt by broader industry trends, including a 6% drop in overall US milk consumption since 2015. Borden noted that more than 2,700 family dairy farms went out of business last year, and 94,000 have stopped producing milk since 1992. With the wholesale cost of milk rising due to fewer suppliers and retail milk prices weaker due to lower consumption, the margins for milk processors like Borden have suffered, the company said in its filing."Despite our numerous achievements during the past 18 months, the company continues to be impacted by the rising cost of raw milk and market challenges facing the dairy industry," said CEO Tony Sarsam in a statement. He said the company has discussed "a range of potential strategic plans" with its lenders. But it had been unable to reach an agreement with them as to what to do next.Borden's filing only says it plans stay in business during the bankruptcy process, and does not spell out whether it intends to stay in business longer term or liquidate. But Borden said in a statement it intends to use the bankruptcy process to shed debt and position itself for "long-term success."The company said it had net sales of $1.2 billion in 2018, but that resulted in a net loss of $14.6 million. From January 2019 through December 7, Borden reported a net loss of $42.4 million, according to its bankruptcy filing.The company's history dates back to before the US Civil War when its founder, Gail Borden, developed the first successful commercial method of condensing milk in 1856. He and his partner opened a plant in upstate New York in 1861, and prospered by supplying condensed milk to the Union Army. It didn't change its name to Borden Dairy Co. until 1919. By 1930, Borden had bought more than 200 other US dairy companies to become the nation's largest distributor of fluid milk, according to its filing. In 1936, "Elsie the Cow" became the company's advertising mascot. Elsie was the center of its marketing for decades to come and was tapped as one of the top 10 advertising icons of the 20th century by AdAge in 2000.The company branched into other businesses, including chemicals, and went on another acquisition binge, buying 23 companies for $442.6 million in 1987 alone. But by the early 1990s it began to run into financial problems and in 1995 it was purchased by private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. for $2 billion and taken private. It sold off many of the other business, leaving mostly just the dairy business.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-30T05:43:27Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/30/business/ikea-china-coronavirus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Ikea shuts down all mainland China stores over coronavirus - CNN
description : Ikea is shutting down dozens of stores across China as the deadly Wuhan coronavirus outbreak escalates.
keywords : business, Ikea shuts down all mainland China stores over coronavirus - CNN
content: The furniture store will "temporarily close" its dozens of brick-and-mortar stores in mainland China starting Thursday, a spokeswoman for Ikea China said in a statement."We will pay close attention to the epidemic situation, and the stores will be closed until further notice," she said, adding that Ikea's online shopping service will continue to operate. Ikea has 30 stores across China, including one in Wuhan, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak, according to the company's website. In China, Ikea is a popular place for shoppers to nap and hang out for long periods of time on the many bed, sofa and furniture displays. Such shopping habits would be counterproductive to containing the coronavirus, as experts and officials advise people to avoid crowded areas. The coronavirus outbreak has killed 170 people and sickened more than 7,000 people in China so far, with dozens more confirmed cases in countries such as Canada, Japan and Australia. The Chinese government has taken unprecedented measures to try to contain the virus, including placing millions of people in major cities on lockdown and extending the Lunar New Year holiday. Ikea is just the latest company to feel the effects of the outbreak. Restaurants such as McDonald's (MCD), Starbucks (SBUX) and Yum China-owned (YUMC) KFC and Pizza Hut have closed thousands of stores across the country. Electric car maker Tesla's (TSLA) brand new Shanghai factory has halted production due to a government-ordered shutdown. Disney (DIS) parks in Shanghai and Hong Kong are shuttered, as museums and major attractions such as the Forbidden City remain closed. The virus could hit China's economy hard. The country's GDP growth could slow by a percentage point this quarter — or even more — because of the outbreak, according to Zhang Ming, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Science, a major Beijing brain trust. His assessment was published Wednesday in a Chinese financial magazine.-- Laura He contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-29T13:44:09Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/29/business/lunar-new-year-coronavirus-economy/index.html
author: Analysis by Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Lunar New Year coronavirus: Extending the holiday will hurt China's economy - CNN
description : As Beijing takes the extraordinary step of extending the Lunar New Year holiday in an effort to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus, businesses in China will suffer the fallout. 
keywords : business, Lunar New Year coronavirus: Extending the holiday will hurt China's economy - CNN
content: The virus outbreak escalated just before the new year, one of China's most significant economic events. Chinese consumers spent more than 1 trillion yuan ($145 billion) last year on holiday shopping, dining, entertainment and travel, according to state news agency Xinhua. Extensive travel restrictions and fears about the virus mean people aren't spending as much this week. But the extended holiday — to February 2 nationwide and for another week beyond that in Shanghai and several provinces — will impact millions of people in other ways as government offices and schools remain closed.Major companies such as Tencent (TCEHY), Huawei and Alibaba (BABA), will feel the effects, too, as head offices remain shut. Tencent (TENC) has told its roughly 54,000 employees that it will be extending holidays until February 9.Exactly how big the economic hit will be is hard to predict. China hasn't come to a complete standstill — the Shanghai Stock Exchange is reopening on February 3. Grocery stores and food delivery services are still up and running, even in areas under lockdown.ING economist Iris Pang said Wednesday that the outbreak would knock a modest 0.3 percentage points off China's first quarter growth. But Tommy Wu, analyst at Oxford Economics, said the impact could be worse than the SARS outbreak in 2003, given the coronavirus is spreading rapidly and coincides with the holiday travel rush. Economists at Nomura warned that the outbreak could knock more than two percentage points off growth in the first quarter — larger than the quarterly drop registered during SARS. Patrick Perret-Green, an economist with research firm AdMacro, said the hit to China's annual growth rate could be even more severe."There will be no quick recovery. China was growing strongly [during SARS], as was the rest of the world," he said. "Now China and the global economy is like a patient on dialysis, and somebody just pulled an IV out."  A big hit to growthBefore the outbreak escalated this month, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank had forecast China's annual economic growth to fall to about 6%, down from 6.1% in 2019.Perret-Green said the outbreak and measures to contain it could push China's 2020 GDP growth rate near levels last seen in 1990, when it was 3.9%, according to World Bank data."Officially it may be closer to 4.5% and possibly the reality could be close to zero," said Perret-Green, who suggested the government severely overstates its GDP figures to begin with.Margaret Yang, an analyst at brokerage firm CMC Markets, said the "adverse economic impact is enormous." All sectors will likely feel the effects of the delay in getting back to work, she said in a research note Tuesday, singling out transportation, tourism, entertainment, retail and commercial property. The Wuhan coronavirus has already killed 132 people, and infected over 6,000 others in China, but is not yet as lethal as the 2003 SARS outbreak. SARS had a roughly 10% fatality rate, compared to the estimated 3% for the coronavirus right now.But the economic costs aren't only about how deadly the virus is, according to Andrew Batson and Ernan Cui, analysts at research firm Gavekal Dragonomics. "These costs are instead going to be determined by the measures China's government takes to contain its spread — measures which have rapidly escalated to an unprecedented severity," they wrote in a research note on Tuesday. Travel and tourism will have an outsized effect, Batson and Cui said. They noted that the sector raked in 514 billion yuan ($74 billion) during the seven-day holiday in 2019, equivalent to 2% of first quarter GDP. Travel industry sufferingThere has already been a plunge in the number of trips made during the holiday. Liu Xiaoming, China's vice minister for transport, told reporters on Sunday that the overall number of trips made across the country on the first day of the Lunar New Year fell nearly 30% from a year ago. Travel by plane and train fell more than 41%, he added.Major travel companies, hotels and airlines are waiving cancellation fees and offering refunds through most of February. Some airlines are suspending services. Meanwhile, major tourist spots including museums, Beijing's Forbidden City and even Disney's (DIS) parks in Shanghai and Hong Kong have shuttered their doors. Beijing and other cities across China also canceled Lunar New Year celebrations, trying to limit crowds. "This will mean a permanent loss of revenue from tourist activities, as the canceled excursions are not going to be repeated after the holiday is over," wrote Batson and Cui. Even after the extended vacation ends, China won't be returning to business as usual. Many people will likely remain cautious, staying indoors and avoiding crowded areas. — CNN's Vanessa Yung, Serenitie Wang and Yong Xiong contributed to this report. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-29T13:44:09Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/29/business/lunar-new-year-coronavirus-economy/index.html
author: Analysis by Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Lunar New Year coronavirus: Extending the holiday will hurt China's economy - CNN
description : As Beijing takes the extraordinary step of extending the Lunar New Year holiday in an effort to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus, businesses in China will suffer the fallout. 
keywords : business, Lunar New Year coronavirus: Extending the holiday will hurt China's economy - CNN
content: The virus outbreak escalated just before the new year, one of China's most significant economic events. Chinese consumers spent more than 1 trillion yuan ($145 billion) last year on holiday shopping, dining, entertainment and travel, according to state news agency Xinhua. Extensive travel restrictions and fears about the virus mean people aren't spending as much this week. But the extended holiday — to February 2 nationwide and for another week beyond that in Shanghai and several provinces — will impact millions of people in other ways as government offices and schools remain closed.Major companies such as Tencent (TCEHY), Huawei and Alibaba (BABA), will feel the effects, too, as head offices remain shut. Tencent (TENC) has told its roughly 54,000 employees that it will be extending holidays until February 9.Exactly how big the economic hit will be is hard to predict. China hasn't come to a complete standstill — the Shanghai Stock Exchange is reopening on February 3. Grocery stores and food delivery services are still up and running, even in areas under lockdown.ING economist Iris Pang said Wednesday that the outbreak would knock a modest 0.3 percentage points off China's first quarter growth. But Tommy Wu, analyst at Oxford Economics, said the impact could be worse than the SARS outbreak in 2003, given the coronavirus is spreading rapidly and coincides with the holiday travel rush. Economists at Nomura warned that the outbreak could knock more than two percentage points off growth in the first quarter — larger than the quarterly drop registered during SARS. Patrick Perret-Green, an economist with research firm AdMacro, said the hit to China's annual growth rate could be even more severe."There will be no quick recovery. China was growing strongly [during SARS], as was the rest of the world," he said. "Now China and the global economy is like a patient on dialysis, and somebody just pulled an IV out."  A big hit to growthBefore the outbreak escalated this month, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank had forecast China's annual economic growth to fall to about 6%, down from 6.1% in 2019.Perret-Green said the outbreak and measures to contain it could push China's 2020 GDP growth rate near levels last seen in 1990, when it was 3.9%, according to World Bank data."Officially it may be closer to 4.5% and possibly the reality could be close to zero," said Perret-Green, who suggested the government severely overstates its GDP figures to begin with.Margaret Yang, an analyst at brokerage firm CMC Markets, said the "adverse economic impact is enormous." All sectors will likely feel the effects of the delay in getting back to work, she said in a research note Tuesday, singling out transportation, tourism, entertainment, retail and commercial property. The Wuhan coronavirus has already killed 132 people, and infected over 6,000 others in China, but is not yet as lethal as the 2003 SARS outbreak. SARS had a roughly 10% fatality rate, compared to the estimated 3% for the coronavirus right now.But the economic costs aren't only about how deadly the virus is, according to Andrew Batson and Ernan Cui, analysts at research firm Gavekal Dragonomics. "These costs are instead going to be determined by the measures China's government takes to contain its spread — measures which have rapidly escalated to an unprecedented severity," they wrote in a research note on Tuesday. Travel and tourism will have an outsized effect, Batson and Cui said. They noted that the sector raked in 514 billion yuan ($74 billion) during the seven-day holiday in 2019, equivalent to 2% of first quarter GDP. Travel industry sufferingThere has already been a plunge in the number of trips made during the holiday. Liu Xiaoming, China's vice minister for transport, told reporters on Sunday that the overall number of trips made across the country on the first day of the Lunar New Year fell nearly 30% from a year ago. Travel by plane and train fell more than 41%, he added.Major travel companies, hotels and airlines are waiving cancellation fees and offering refunds through most of February. Some airlines are suspending services. Meanwhile, major tourist spots including museums, Beijing's Forbidden City and even Disney's (DIS) parks in Shanghai and Hong Kong have shuttered their doors. Beijing and other cities across China also canceled Lunar New Year celebrations, trying to limit crowds. "This will mean a permanent loss of revenue from tourist activities, as the canceled excursions are not going to be repeated after the holiday is over," wrote Batson and Cui. Even after the extended vacation ends, China won't be returning to business as usual. Many people will likely remain cautious, staying indoors and avoiding crowded areas. — CNN's Vanessa Yung, Serenitie Wang and Yong Xiong contributed to this report. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-29T21:36:47Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/29/business/tesla-earnings/index.html
author: Chris Isidore, CNN Business
headline: Tesla posts first annual profit - CNN
description : Tesla posted its first annual profit, easily topping Wall Street's forecasts in the final three months of 2019.
keywords : business, Tesla posts first annual profit - CNN
content: Tesla has had only a handful of quarterly profits in its 10 years as a public company. On a strict accounting basis the company posted yet another loss for 2019. However, Tesla posted a $386 million profit in the final three months of 2019 using the operating basis followed by most analysts and investors. That left it with a narrow $35.8 million profit for the year. "2019 was a turning point for Tesla," the company said in its statement. The company said it should be able to continue to grow, with the opening of its Shanghai factory ahead of schedule and a new, lower priced SUV, the Model Y, on which the company recently started production. It expects the first limited deliveries of the Model Y later in this quarter.It also plans to open a new factory near Berlin in 2021. It said it should "comfortably exceed" 500,000 cars sold this year, a 36% increase from its 2019 sales total. The results are a validation for Tesla's controversial CEO Elon Musk, who has fans and detractors on Wall Street as he bucked the traditional auto industry. The company has often fallen short of its promises, but it has not entered a period in which results are regularly exceeding expectations. Tesla said that even on a strict accounting basis it expects to be profitable going forward. In the past it was known for burning through cash, raising fears of a cash crunch. Now it said it expects to be cash flow positive going forward except for brief periods tied to the launch and ramp-up of new vehicles."We continue to believe our business has grown to the point of being self-funding," said the company in its earnings release. "Continuous volume growth, capacity expansion and cash generation remain the main focus.Shares of Tesla (TSLA), which have been on a torrid run for the last eight months, jumped about 11.5% in after-hours trading on the report, on top of an earlier 2.5% gain at the close of regular trading.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-31T17:07:07Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/31/business/american-delta-united-flights-coronavirus/index.html
author: Jordan Valinsky, CNN Business
headline: American Airlines, Delta and United suspend most US to China flights amid coronavirus outbreak - CNN
description : Three of the largest US airlines -- Delta, American and United -- have canceled more flights between the United States and China because of concerns about the spread of coronavirus. 
keywords : business, American Airlines, Delta and United suspend most US to China flights amid coronavirus outbreak - CNN
content: For American Airlines, the nation's largest carrier, the decision comes after the union representing 15,000 pilots sued the company Thursday to immediately halt its US-China service, citing "serious, and in many ways still unknown, health threats posed by the coronavirus."American (AAL) moved up its planned suspension of flights between the United States and mainland China beginning Friday. It had originally announced that flights between Los Angeles and Shanghai and Los Angeles and Beijing would be suspended from February 9. Its Hong Kong flights will continue to operate."Based on the U.S. Department of State's recent increase of the China Travel Advisory to a Level 4 (Do Not Travel), American is suspending its operations to and from the Chinese mainland beginning today through March 27," American said in a statement. The union applauded the move. "Now that American is ceasing operations in China, the ultimate goal is that all our passengers and crew will remain safe and that was our main goal," Captain Dennis Tajer, a spokesperson for the Allied Pilots Association, told CNN Business. Delta said Friday it was suspending all flights from the United States to China from February 6 until April 30. The airline said it's continuing routes until February 5 to "ensure customers looking to exit China have options to do so." It said that it will "continue to monitor the situation closely" and adjust its schedule accordingly. Affected customers can request a refund, rebook their flight after the suspension lifts or speak with an agent for other options. Delta (DAL) currently operates 42 weekly flights between the United States and China, including daily service connecting Beijing and Detroit and Seattle, and Shanghai and Atlanta, Detroit, Los Angeles and Seattle.United Airlines (UAL) also said Friday it was suspending flights from is US hub cities and Beijing, Chengdu and Shanghai from February 6 to March 28. Until next week, the carrier will "operate select flights to help ensure our US-based employees, as well as customers, have options to return home," it said in a statement. On Tuesday, United said it was suspending operations to Hong Kong because of a drop in demand. Operations will be suspended Feb. 8-Feb. 20, the airline said."Our last flights will depart San Francisco on February 5 (flight 877 and flight 869) and the last returning flight will depart Hong Kong on February 7 (flight 862)," the airline said in a statement on its website.The coronavirus, a potentially fatal respiratory disease, first emerged in Wuhan, China in early December and has since spread across China and appeared in some other countries, including the United States, Japan and India. The World Health Organization has declared the coronavirus epidemic a public health emergency of international concern.Fears over the spread of the disease has forced both US and global carriers to amend their schedules as demand for China travel declines. British Airways, Air Asia, Cathay Pacific, Air India, IndiGo, Lufthansa and Finnair have announced plans this week to slash the number of flights they are operating to China or stop flying to the country entirely. Other airlines are offering customers refunds.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-03T21:45:59Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/03/business/oil-prices-bear-market-coronavirus/index.html
author: Matt Egan, CNN Business
headline: The coronavirus is clobbering oil prices - CNN
description : Crude oil has crashed into yet another bear market on fears that the coronavirus outbreak will destroy demand in China, the world's largest crude importer. 
keywords : business, The coronavirus is clobbering oil prices - CNN
content: US oil tumbled another 2.8% on Monday and briefly broke below $50 a barrel for the first time since January 2019. Crude finished at $50.11 a barrel, leaving it down nearly 21% from the recent closing high of $63.27 a barrel on January 6. A bear market is frequently defined as a drop of more than 20% from previous highs. Energy markets have been clobbered by the rapid spread of the coronavirus, which has killed more than 360 people and infected more than 17,000 around the world. The virus has also caused countless flight cancellations and brought parts of the Chinese economy to a standstill.  "There's a lot of fear in the market. And a lot of forced liquidations," said Ryan Fitzmaurice, energy strategist at Rabobank. Oil prices had been on the rise to start the year as investors bet the US-China Phase One trade deal would revive the global economy. Crude also momentarily spiked on surging tensions between the United States and Iran. 'Things really snowballed'The energy selloff began after US-Iran tensions eased, lowering the chances of a supply disruption in the Middle East. But oil prices, along with the stock market, have since been rattled by the coronavirus outbreak. "This virus showed up and that's when things really snowballed," said Fitzmaurice. Investors are worried that the coronavirus will hurt demand for jet fuel. Major international airlines including Air Canada, American Airlines (AAL), Delta (DAL) and British Airways have suspended all flights to and from mainland China until the end of February or longer. China Eastern on Monday became the first major Chinese carrier to suspend flights to and from the United States. The coronavirus has alarmed investors because it's spreading rapidly in China, the most important source of demand for energy in the world. China relies on heavy amounts of oil to keep its fast-growing economy humming and to move its enormous population.  China imported more than 10 million barrels of oil per day in 2019, making it the world's biggest importer. It was the 17th straight year of record oil imports, according to Reuters. "The question is how quickly will the virus get contained, allowing economic activity to resume?" said Ben Cook, portfolio manager at BP Capital Fund.  Demand is dropping sharplyIn a worst-case scenario, oil demand is expected to plunge by 2.6 million barrels per day in February and 2 million barrels in March, according to Platts Analytics. Even the best-case scenario by Platts calls for a drop of 900,000 barrels in oil demand for February.  The notoriously boom-to-bust oil market is no stranger to bear markets. Yet even by oil's standards, these downdrafts are occurring more frequently. Crude has now plunged into four bear markets just since the start of 2017. That has helped lead to a dreadful performance for energy stocks.Yet unlike these prior plunges, this bear market is being driven by diminished demand, not excess supply. History shows it can take the energy market time to rebound from health shocks.  It took US oil prices more than 10 months to recover in 2003 from the SARS crisis, according to CFRA Research.  
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-27T13:52:00Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/27/business/oil-prices-coronavirus/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Oil prices have fallen 10% as coronavirus raises fears for global growth  - CNN
description : China's coronavirus outbreak has rattled oil markets, sending prices sharply lower as investors worry that efforts to prevent it spreading will harm the country's economy and reduce demand for crude. 
keywords : business, Oil prices have fallen 10% as coronavirus raises fears for global growth  - CNN
content: Brent crude futures traded around 3% lower on Monday at $58.88 a barrel, their lowest level since October. US crude futures were down roughly 3%.The price of Brent, the global benchmark, has tumbled by about 10% since January 17, when Chinese authorities confirmed the death of a second person infected with the virus. It has spread rapidly since then, leading the Chinese government to impose restrictions on transportation. Full, or partial lockdowns, are in effect in 15 Chinese cities, covering 60 million people. The death toll now stands at 80, with nearly 3,000 confirmed cases in mainland China and more than 50 in other places including the United States."As the human cost continues to rise, investors have become increasingly concerned about the potential economic consequences of the disease," analysts at Rabobank said in a research note. "Prices of copper, iron ore and oil have slumped as investors anticipate supply chain disruptions across several industries and a broad slowdown in economic activity," they added.The virus could further weaken the Chinese economy, the world's second biggest, which had already slumped to its slowest pace of growth in nearly three decades in 2019. Ratings agency S&P Global said last week that China's economic growth could contract by as much as 1.2 percentage points this year if spending on services such as transport and entertainment fall by 10%. There are big implications for energy markets. China is the world's second-largest consumer of oil, according to the International Energy Agency, and reduced economic activity means less demand. Stephen Innes, chief market strategist at AxiCorp, said in a research note that travel restrictions would crimp demand for products made from crude oil, such as jet fuel.Other economies are unlikely to pick up the slack. The International Monetary Fund last week downgraded its growth forecast for the global economy in 2020 to a tepid 3.3%.Oil supplyThe coronavirus outbreak comes at a particularly bad time for oil prices, which were already under pressure from a global supply glut."The virus is fueling fears of cooling of oil demand, which would mean that the global oil market would be oversupplied to an even greater extent," analysts at Commerzbank said in a research note. Saudi Arabia's energy minister, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, tried to calm investor nerves, telling Reuters that the virus will have a "very limited impact on global oil demand." He said that OPEC, of which Saudi Arabia is the biggest producer, is ready to act to ensure the stability of the market, an indication that further production cuts could be on the cards.In December, OPEC and allied producers, including Russia, agreed to deepen production cuts in an attempt to prop up prices.In a sign of how bearish the oil market is, Innes said that "traders hardly blinked" at news over the weekend of a rocket attack on the US embassy in Baghdad, Iraq.Shares in state oil giant Saudi Aramco were trading slightly weaker on Monday, taking the stock's losses so far this year to about 3%.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-27T00:38:05Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/26/business/coronavirus-stock-futures/index.html
author: Rob McLean, CNN Business
headline: Dow futures tumble on fifth US case of coronavirus - CNN
description : US stock futures dropped sharply Monday as concerns grew over the spread of a deadly coronavirus. 
keywords : business, Dow futures tumble on fifth US case of coronavirus - CNN
content: Dow (INDU) futures fell by as much as 500 points, or 1.6%. S&P 500 (INX) futures were down about 1.6% and Nasdaq (COMP) futures were lower by about 2.1%.Eighty people have been killed by the coronavirus, according to Chinese health officials. There are more than 2,700 confirmed cases.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Sunday confirmed a fifth case of the virus in the United States. Each of the infected people had recently traveled to Wuhan, China, the epicenter of the outbreak.Four cases of the disease have been confirmed in Japan. The latest case is a man in his 40s who traveled from Wuhan and arrived in Japan on January 22."As the human cost continues to rise, investors have become increasingly concerned about the potential economic consequences of the disease," said analysts at Dutch bank Rabobank.Investors piled into safe haven assets, such as gold, which gained 0.9% to trade near $1,585 an ounce. Meanwhile, oil prices fell by more than 3%. Futures for Brent crude, the global benchmark, were trading at $58.73 per barrel. US oil futures were down at $52.41 per barrel. Goldman Sachs analysts said last week that the anticipated decline in regional travel could bring down jet fuel prices, causing crude oil to take a hit.Boeing's stock fell more than 2% in premarket trading after a passenger plane crashed in Afghanistan's eastern Deh Yak district of Ghazni province Monday. A government official cited "technical reasons" for the crash. Boeing (BA) is the heaviest-weighted Dow component and has outsize influence on the index.In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 (N225) ended with a loss of 2%. It was the only major stock market in east Asia open Monday due to the Lunar New Year. Major markets in Europe posted losses of roughly 2%, with luxury goods brands and travel stocks particularly hard hit.Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst for Asia Pacific at Oanda, said that any moves today could be "exaggerated" because of the market closures in Asia. But he cautioned that the virus "will of course hang like a shadow over financial markets this week."Halley also said that asset markets have been "pumped up" following the recent US-China trade deal and a slew of rate cuts by central banks last year. He said an unexpected shock to growth could leave markets "particularly vulnerable to a potentially strong downward correction."The Dow closed down 0.6% on Friday — its worst day of the year. Also Friday, the S&P 500 had its worst day since early October, while the Nasdaq had its lowest close since early December.-- CNN's Anneken Tappe, Faith Karimi, Ehsan Popalzai and Eliott C. McLaughlin contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-16T13:00:19Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/16/business/us-china-phase-1-trade-deal-details/index.html
author: Michelle Toh, CNN Business
headline: US-China phase 1 trade deal: Beijing agrees to buy $200 billion in US products - CNN
description : Details of what China is giving, and getting, out of the initial trade deal signed on Wednesday.
keywords : business, US-China phase 1 trade deal: Beijing agrees to buy $200 billion in US products - CNN
content: The agreement signed Wednesday will have Beijing purchase an additional $200 billion of US goods and services over the next two years.The increase in purchases will be compared to 2017, before the trade war started. China imported over $185 billion in total US goods and services that year. In exchange, Washington has agreed to reduce tariffs on $120 billion in Chinese products from 15% to 7.5%.Taken together, the phased purchases by China would result in a dramatic surge in US exports. Total exports to China would increase to over $260 billion in 2020, and roughly $310 billion in 2021 if the deal holds. "We think it is highly challenging for China to import $200 billion more goods and services from the US over the next two years without reducing imports from elsewhere," said analysts at UBS.Agricultural goods account for a big chunk of the new purchases. Under the agreement, China will buy an additional $12.5 billion of those goods in year one, and then $19.5 billion in year two, compared to 2017.Among the products it has promised to buy are soybeans, pork, cotton and wheat. Trade in soybeans and pork in particular has been hit hard as tensions have escalated between the world's two largest economies. Both products were among thousands of US goods hit by Chinese tariffs in July 2018, in response to the Trump administration's taxes on $34 billion of Chinese goods.In addition to the purchases announced on Wednesday, the initial deal provides better protection to American companies that have long complained about thefts of their intellectual property and trade secrets.It also loosens up requirements for banks wanting to operate in China and imposes anti-counterfeiting measures that, if broken, would lead to penalties.Beijing's pledges go further than China has in the past, but the agreement doesn't require the government to change any laws or regulations. And China still didn't give ground on some of the most important issues for America, such as demands for cuts to state subsidies that could trigger a fundamental overhaul of how the Chinese economy works. That is among several sticking points that the two sides are expected to discuss for the next phase of the agreement.For now, the deal is expected to bring some relief to Chinese manufacturers, who have suffered from tariffs that made their goods more expensive. It also lifts some of the uncertainty that had been clouding companies' decisions to invest in China.Additionally, the agreement fits neatly into one of Beijing's key goals: to diversify its economy and reform its financial system. China's central bank said in a statement Thursday that the deal would help it continue to open up the country's financial sector.Going forward, a senior US administration official told reporters that Washington would be "actively monitoring" data sources from both countries to ensure that China is fulfilling its promise.— CNN's Donna Borak and Laura He contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-27T00:38:05Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/26/business/coronavirus-stock-futures/index.html
author: Rob McLean, CNN Business
headline: Dow futures tumble on fifth US case of coronavirus - CNN
description : US stock futures dropped sharply Monday as concerns grew over the spread of a deadly coronavirus. 
keywords : business, Dow futures tumble on fifth US case of coronavirus - CNN
content: Dow (INDU) futures fell by as much as 500 points, or 1.6%. S&P 500 (INX) futures were down about 1.6% and Nasdaq (COMP) futures were lower by about 2.1%.Eighty people have been killed by the coronavirus, according to Chinese health officials. There are more than 2,700 confirmed cases.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Sunday confirmed a fifth case of the virus in the United States. Each of the infected people had recently traveled to Wuhan, China, the epicenter of the outbreak.Four cases of the disease have been confirmed in Japan. The latest case is a man in his 40s who traveled from Wuhan and arrived in Japan on January 22."As the human cost continues to rise, investors have become increasingly concerned about the potential economic consequences of the disease," said analysts at Dutch bank Rabobank.Investors piled into safe haven assets, such as gold, which gained 0.9% to trade near $1,585 an ounce. Meanwhile, oil prices fell by more than 3%. Futures for Brent crude, the global benchmark, were trading at $58.73 per barrel. US oil futures were down at $52.41 per barrel. Goldman Sachs analysts said last week that the anticipated decline in regional travel could bring down jet fuel prices, causing crude oil to take a hit.Boeing's stock fell more than 2% in premarket trading after a passenger plane crashed in Afghanistan's eastern Deh Yak district of Ghazni province Monday. A government official cited "technical reasons" for the crash. Boeing (BA) is the heaviest-weighted Dow component and has outsize influence on the index.In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 (N225) ended with a loss of 2%. It was the only major stock market in east Asia open Monday due to the Lunar New Year. Major markets in Europe posted losses of roughly 2%, with luxury goods brands and travel stocks particularly hard hit.Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst for Asia Pacific at Oanda, said that any moves today could be "exaggerated" because of the market closures in Asia. But he cautioned that the virus "will of course hang like a shadow over financial markets this week."Halley also said that asset markets have been "pumped up" following the recent US-China trade deal and a slew of rate cuts by central banks last year. He said an unexpected shock to growth could leave markets "particularly vulnerable to a potentially strong downward correction."The Dow closed down 0.6% on Friday — its worst day of the year. Also Friday, the S&P 500 had its worst day since early October, while the Nasdaq had its lowest close since early December.-- CNN's Anneken Tappe, Faith Karimi, Ehsan Popalzai and Eliott C. McLaughlin contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-27T09:40:28Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/27/business/coronavirus-business-closures/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Global businesses are feeling the effects of the coronavirus - CNN
description : Major shops, restaurants and tourist destinations are shuttering their doors across China, as global businesses begin to feel the effects of the deadly Wuhan virus outbreak. 
keywords : business, Global businesses are feeling the effects of the coronavirus - CNN
content: Chinese officials on Monday announced that the death toll from the coronavirus has risen to 80, with nearly 2,800 cases confirmed in mainland China and several dozen more in countries such as the United States, Australia and Japan. With over 57 million people in 15 cities across China on lockdown, the crisis is hitting the retail, travel and tourism industries particularly hard during the peak Lunar New Year season.Companies say they are following cues from officials, which means the pain could last past the holiday season. Beijing has already extended the Lunar New Year holiday from January 30 to February 2 to try and prevent the spread of the virus. A government official told reporters Monday that authorities are considering a further extension. Here's what some major companies are doing to try and contain the outbreak.Starbucks (SBUX) announced over the weekend that it is closing shops and suspending delivery services in the city of Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, and the wider Hubei Province. The coffee chain operates 90 shops in the central Chinese province, according to the company's website. KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants are also closed in the city of Wuhan until further notice. Parent company Yum China (YUMC) says that it will continue to evaluate the need for "additional actions." McDonald's (MCD) has shut restaurants in Wuhan and four other cities in Hubei. Disney (DIS) has closed its parks in Shanghai and Hong Kong, just as the resorts were gearing up to usher in what it called the "Year of the Mouse," a play on China's Year of the Rat. Disney had put up new Chinese New Year-themed decorations throughout the parks, launched new merchandise and introduced several Lunar New Year dining options.Shares in luxury goods companies have taken a hit on concerns about lower sales during what is usually a busy shopping season. The stocks of LVMH (LVMHF), Kering (PPRUF) and Cartier watch maker Richemont all fell more than 5% last week.Companies with a large presence in Wuhan are also preparing for trouble. Renault (RNLSY), one of several automakers with a major manufacturing plant in the city, said last week that it was "studying carefully" the issue. Automotive factories, like other businesses, were already closed for the holidays.Peugeot (PUGOY) tweeted Saturday that it will repatriate its expat staff and their families from"the Wuhan region." "At the same time, the group and its Chinese partner are mobilized to implement measures to take care of the Chinese employees of their joint venture," it added. The coronavirus outreak comes "at probably the worst time for China," said Jude Blanchette, head of China studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. The Lunar New Year "is the single biggest economic event in China where last year there was upwards of $150 billion spent during the period, so the economic implications could be significant," he told CNN last week.The period marks the largest annual human migration on Earth, during which time hundreds of millions of Chinese travelers usually cram themselves into homebound trains, buses and planes for family reunions. The coronavirus outbreak has prompted millions to rethink those plans. The overall number of trips made across China on Saturday, the first day of the Lunar New Year period, plunged nearly 30% from a year ago, Liu Xiaoming, vice minister for transport, told reporters on Sunday. Travel by plane and train fell more than 41%, he added. Major hotel chains including IHG (GXMLF), Marriott (MAR) and Accor (ACCYY) said they will waive cancellation fees until February 8 for reservations at hotels in China and beyond. Airline operators including Cathay (CPCAY) and Qantas (QABSY) said they will offer full refunds for passengers traveling to and froms China from January 24 until the end of February.  China's largest travel agency Trip.com (TCOM), also known as CTrip, said last week that it would offer customers free cancellations on all hotels, car rental services and tickets for tourist attractions in Wuhan until January 31. The stock dropped 18% last week in New York.Trip.com's business "in the short-term, it will take a hit," Jane Sun told CNN in an interview on the sidelines of the Davos conference last week. But she anticipates that once the crisis is over, business will rebound thanks to pent-up demand. The business woes come as the pace of China's economic growth is hitting historic lows and the country continues to suffer from the effects of the trade war with the United States. The Wuhan coronavirus outbreak is already spurring people to hunker down and avoid going outside. That kind of behavior could deal a huge blow to the service sector, which now accounts for about 52% of the Chinese economy.-- Paul LaMonica, Cristina Alesci, Clare Sebastian, Richard Quest and Alexandra Lin contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-24T02:02:41Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/23/business/coronavirus-carmakers-luxury/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Global carmaker and luxury brands hit as coronavirus shuts down Wuhan - CNN
description : Global carmakers and luxury goods firms are facing a hit to their business in China due to disruption caused by the spread of a deadly virus that could drag down an already slowing economy. 
keywords : business, Global carmaker and luxury brands hit as coronavirus shuts down Wuhan - CNN
content: Wuhan is one of China's "motor cities," home to numerous auto plants supplying the world's largest market for cars.General Motors (GM), Nissan (NSANF), Renault (RNLSY),  Honda (HMC) and Peugeot owner PSA Group (PUGOY) are among several companies that have large manufacturing plants in Wuhan — ground zero of the coronavirus outbreak that has already claimed dozens of lives.  All of the Western automakers operate the plants through joint ventures with Chinese automakers, including GM's partner SAIC and Dongfeng Motor Corporation, one of the country's largest auto groups. The GM-SAIC plant in Wuhan has about 6,000 employees, about 10% of GM's total work force in China.The city of 11 million people, is under partial lockdown after its airport and railway stations were closed to departing passengers on Thursday as fear over the outbreak spread. All public transport services in the city have been suspended, and some of the main highways closed. At least 10 cities and almost 30 million people in China's central Hubei district are facing travel restrictions. Beijing and Shanghai are at the highest level of alert for a public health emergency.The transport disruptions could cause headaches for businesses, and hurt consumer spending at a time when carmakers are already struggling with falling sales. The global auto industry is in a deep recession, which shows few signs of abating. The number of cars sold in China, the world's largest market, fell by 2.3 million in 2019, according to LMC Automotive. Chinese officials have said sales could fall again this year. Virus-related shutdowns are expected to hit spending over the upcoming Lunar New Year holiday, when consumers typically spend more on travel, entertainment and gifts, ratings agency S&P Global said Thursday. If spending on services such as transport and entertainment fell by 10%, China's overall economic growth would contract by about 1.2 percentage points, it added. Carmakers in WuhanFrench carmaker Renault sold nearly 180,000 vehicles in China last year, or about 5% of its global car sales. It manufactures its flagship SUVs — the Kadjar and Koleos 2 models — at the Wuhan plant.In 2018, Renault produced 16,459 Kadjars and 31,299 Koleos in Wuhan to cater to the needs of the Chinese market, spokesperson Rié Yamane told CNN Business. Sales figures for 2019 will be available in March, she added.According to Renault's website, the Wuhan factory has a workforce of 2,000 and annual capacity of 300,000 vehicles.Renault's shares were trading 1% weaker in Paris on Friday, extending the stock's losses for the week to 7%. Shares in the company have dropped nearly 14% so far this year amid continued fallout from the scandal surrounding former chairman Carlos Ghosn. PSA Group sells its Peugeot and Citroën brands in China. Last year, the company sold about 117,000 vehicles in the country, a 55% decline on the previous year. A company spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment on the size of its operations in Wuhan, but said that the firm is "applying the recommendation of Chinese authorities."Honda's Wuhan joint venture contributed about 11% to the group's revenue for the year to March 2019 and accounted for the majority of its Asian automobile revenue, financial statements show. The company opened a third plant in Wuhan in April, according to a press release.Given the upcoming Lunar New Year, companies may not feel the effect of the lockdown for a while. Renault and Honda said their Wuhan plants were already closed for the holidays. A spokesperson for Honda said its plant was closed from Thursday until February 2."We are studying carefully the issue internally through the different departments and China," Renault's Yamane said. "We are of course respecting the Chinese authorities' regulations," she added. GM says it is staying abreast of the development and advising employees who are not feeling well to not come to work."The most important thing is to contain the virus -  production is secondary to the health of the team and community," said GM spokesman Jim Cain.Luxury firms falter Shares in luxury goods companies, which usually benefit from increased consumer spending over the Chinese New Year, have also taken a hit this week, although they recovered a little on Friday.LVMH (LVMHF), which owns Louis Vuitton and Fendi, has fallen 4.5% since Monday. Gucci and Balenciaga parent Kering (PPRUF) is down 5%, while Richemont, the maker of Cartier watches, has dropped 6%. These companies are "bracing themselves for a potential hit to their sales," said David Perrotta, the UK head of international payments provider, Planet.Travel restrictions could have a "significant impact on sales during this crucial two-week spending period" when "luxury retailers would typically be expecting a windfall in sales to Chinese shoppers," he added.In 2018, Chinese consumers at home and abroad spent 770 billion yuan ($115 billion) on luxury items, equivalent to a third of the global spend, according to McKinsey. The management consulting firm expects Chinese consumers to account for 40% of the world's spending on luxury goods by 2025.Kering and Richemont declined to comment. LVMH did not respond to a request for comment. — Charles Riley, James Griffiths and Steve George Kate Trafecante, Vanessa Yurkevich and Chris Isidore contributed reporting.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-20T13:00:21Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/20/business/imf-world-economy-davos/index.html
author: Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: IMF finds new reasons to worry about the global economy - CNN
description : The global economy is expected to pick up this year — but the International Monetary Fund is less optimistic about the recovery than it was a few months ago.
keywords : business, IMF finds new reasons to worry about the global economy - CNN
content: The group said Monday that weaknesses in emerging markets, such as India, and growing social unrest had caused it to downgrade its forecast for economic growth in 2020. The IMF now expects 3.3% growth in 2020, down from its 3.4% projection in October.That would still mark an improvement from 2019, when growth likely came in at 2.9%, according to the IMF. And its economists note that some risks have eased.Market sentiment has jumped on "tentative signs" that global manufacturing and trade will improve from here on out, the IMF said in its report. Monetary stimulus, "intermittent favorable news" on US-China trade negotiations and reduced anxiety about a messy Brexit have also improved the global mood.Yet some confidence may be premature. The IMF also downgraded its outlook for growth in 2021 by 0.2 percentage points to 3.4%."Few signs of turning points are yet visible in global macroeconomic data," it said in its report.One immediate concern is that developing economies won't be as resilient as expected. The IMF now pegs India's growth at 5.8% in 2020, up from 4.8% last year but a full 1.2 percentage points below what it forecast in October.The IMF said domestic demand in India "has slowed more sharply than expected" because of stress in its financial sector and lower credit growth. It also moderated expectations for growth in Mexico, Chile and South Africa.The outlook for the US economy remains stable, if not particularly encouraging. Growth is predicted to fall from 2.3% in 2019 to 2% in 2020. That's 0.1 percentage points lower than the IMF projected in October.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-20T09:28:39Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/20/business/global-auto-recession/index.html
author: Analysis by Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: The recession in global car sales shows no sign of ending - CNN
description : The global auto industry plunged deeper into recession in 2019, with sales dropping more than 4% as carmakers struggled to find buyers in China and India. The pain is likely to continue this year. 
keywords : business, The recession in global car sales shows no sign of ending - CNN
content: The number of vehicles sold across major global markets dipped to 90.3 million last year, according to analysts at LMC Automotive. That's down from 94.4 million in 2018, and well below the record 95.2 million cars sold in 2017.The slump has upended an industry that is grappling with the huge challenge of ditching the internal combustion engine to tackle the climate crisis. Some experts have even begun to speculate that the world may have reached "peak car," or the point at which global demand for vehicles begins an inexorable decline. Recession comes with big ramifications for the global economy. According to the International Monetary Fund, the car industry accounts for 5.7% of economic output and 8% of goods exports. It is the second largest consumer of steel and aluminum. The biggest blow to carmakers last year came in China, the world's largest market for vehicles, where a sharp slowdown in economic growth and the elimination of tax incentives for electric car purchases caused demand to plummet. The number of vehicles sold dropped 2.3 million from 2018, said LMC. In India, another huge market where carmakers had invested heavily, consumers held off on big purchases because of a credit crunch and a weakening economy. Conditions were also tough in Europe, where Brexit and Volkswagen's (VLKAF) diesel emissions crisis continued to scare off potential buyers and force executives to review investments.The pressure has sparked a wave of partnerships across the industry. Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) is merging with Peugeot owner PSA Group (PUGOY) and Volkswagen (VLKAF) has teamed up with Ford to develop electric cars. German rivals Daimler (DDAIF) and BMW (BMWYY) have joined forces to develop ride sharing and driverless technology.Yet the outlook for 2020 isn't much brighter. China's industry minister Miao Wei said Monday that this year and next would be "critical" for the car market and that vehicle sales in the country could be flat "or slightly negative" in 2020.LMC expects global sales to fall below 90 million, down 0.3% on the previous year. "There is unlikely to be any real support to the global total from the mature markets like western Europe and the United States," said Jonathon Poskitt, director of global sales forecasts at LMC.The big question is when — or even whether — the auto industry will return to growth. Poskitt said the vehicle sales record hit in 2017 is unlikely to be surpassed in the next few years, in part because of reduced demand in wealthy cities that are struggling with traffic congestion and increased pollution. In those urban areas, potential buyers might be more likely to use car sharing programs or public transportation. But LMC forecasts that demand in less developed areas will eventually result in new global sales records, starting in 2023."Many markets in the world are not yet at what we would consider to be mature levels, and as income grows so does the affordability of vehicle ownership," said Poskitt. "Considering the low levels of car density in China and India alone, there remains the potential for solid market expansion as some of the more immediate headwinds ease."Yet there is considerable uncertainty over how the transition from cars powered by diesel and gasoline to vehicles that run on electricity will affect sales, to say nothing of the possibility that individual car ownership will gradually be replaced by fleets of autonomous cars providing rides on demand. Among the immediate challenges facing global carmakers: Electric vehicles cost significantly more than conventional models, require fewer workers to assemble and rely on dramatically shorter supply chains. And in Europe at least, those supply chains face serious disruption from Brexit."Automakers are facing challenges that mean they will have to make changes to business models above and beyond those required by technological reconfiguration," the IMF said in its October World Economic Outlook.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-01T18:45:27Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/01/business/american-delta-airlines-coronavirus/index.html
author: Shannon Liao, CNN Business
headline: Major U.S. airlines expand flight cancellations to China and Hong Kong - CNN
description : American Airlines and Delta Air Lines announced more flight cancellations to China on Saturday as coronavirus cases rise rapidly.
keywords : business, Major U.S. airlines expand flight cancellations to China and Hong Kong - CNN
content: Delta said it will suspend flights between the United States and China starting on Sunday until at least April 30, according to a press release. That's four days earlier than it had initially planned. Delta's last China-bound flight leaves on Saturday, February 1 and its last returning flight from China to the United States leaves on Sunday. Delta moved the date up after the US State Department warned this week that people should not travel to China due to concerns about the spread of coronavirus, which was first discovered in Wuhan, China, in December. Almost 12,000 cases have been confirmed worldwide, with more than 11,800 of those in China. At least 26 other countries have reported cases, including three in Japan, two in the UK and two in Australia Saturday.Fears over the pandemic have rattled global stock markets and forced both US and global carriers to amend their flight schedules as demand for China travel declines.American Airlines (AAL), which canceled all flights to mainland China starting Friday, confirmed Saturday that it had also scrubbed flights to Hong Kong through Monday. It "will make decisions about Hong Kong flights each day based on our operational situation," said American, the largest US carrier, in a statement. Its pilots' union had taken issue with Hong Kong's proximity to China and potentially to the virus."While Hong Kong is a special administrative region, this virus does not recognize such a geopolitical wording," said Captain Dennis Tajer, spokesperson for the Allied Pilots Association, which represents 15,000 American Airlines pilots. "Just look at the map. Hong Kong geographically is a landmass that's part of China. The geopolitical issues, which we obviously respect, the virus doesn't."The union this week sued the company to immediately halt its US-China service, citing "serious, and in many ways still unknown, health threats posed by the coronavirus." As of Saturday, the lawsuit is still pending a judge's decision, according to Tajer.United Airlines (UAL) said Friday it was suspending flights from its US hub cities and Beijing, Chengdu and Shanghai from February 6 to March 28. Until next week, the carrier will "operate select flights to help ensure our US-based employees, as well as customers, have options to return home," it said in a statement.British Airways, Air Asia, Cathay Pacific, Air India, IndiGo, Lufthansa and Finnair have announced plans this week to slash the number of flights they are operating to China or stop flying to the country entirely. Other airlines are offering customers refunds.US President Donald Trump announced on Friday that as of Sunday at 5 p.m. ET, foreign nationals who have been to China in the past 14 days are barred from entering the United States. US citizens and permanent residents are still allowed to enter. Those who have been to Hubei province, which includes Wuhan, the virus' epicenter, in the past 14 days must go through mandatory quarantine.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-08T00:24:46Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/07/business/oil-prices-iran-attack-iraq/index.html
author: Matt Egan, Laura He and Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Oil prices plunge as Trump speech eases Iran fears - CNN
description : Oil prices tumbled Wednesday as President Donald Trump signaled tensions with Iran are easing, reducing fears of a deeper conflict between the two nations. 
keywords : business, Oil prices plunge as Trump speech eases Iran fears - CNN
content: The decline in crude marks a stunning reversal from an initial spike caused by Iran's missile strike on bases in Iraq that house US troops.US crude tumbled 4%, hitting session lows after Trump signaled tensions could be easing."Iran appears to be standing down, which is a good thing for all parties concerned and a very good thing for the world," Trump said in a highly-anticipated speech.Crude briefly dipped below $60 a barrel after Trump's remarks, giving back all of the gains from last week's US drone strike that killed a top Iranian commander. It's a dramatic pullback from the high of $65.65 late Tuesday after Iran lobbed missiles on bases in Iraq that house US troops. Trump confirmed that no Americans were harmed in that attack. And rather than signaling a US military response, Trump vowed to impose new sanctions on Iran. There is a growing sense that Iran's attack was not as bad as initially feared. No casualties have been reported. Some in the Trump administration think Iran intentionally missed areas with Americans, multiple officials told CNN.Iran launched more than a dozen ballistic missiles against bases in Iraq that house US troops in retaliation for the American airstrike that killed a top Iranian general last week. The attacks were Iran's response to the US killing last week of top Iranian General Qasem Soleimani in Baghdad. Iran has called that attack an "act of war" and "state terrorism" and had vowed a response."It comes as no surprise that there has been a reprisal from Iran — the concern is that this is just the sign of things to come," said Matt Smith, director of commodity research at ClipperData.Investors are on high alert for any signs of a clash between the United States and Iran that threatens oil supplies in the Middle East. Crude prices retreated earlier this week on hopes that energy supplies won't be impacted by the tensions. OPEC reassuresThe energy minister of the United Arab Emirates said Wednesday that OPEC is ready to respond as tensions rise in the Middle East, saying that no country can afford a return to a situation where crude oil costs $100 per barrel.Suhail Al Mazrouei told CNN Business that the cartel would seek to ensure that ample energy supplies are available."We will always make sure that we supply the world with whatever it requires," al Mazrouei said, adding that the United Arab Emirates was building spare capacity in order to avoid shortages.Still, the energy minister cautioned that even OPEC and its allies don't have unlimited resources. "We have limitations as well," he said, saying that the group "cannot just replace any quantity" of supply that is taken offline.A spike in oil prices could deal a blow to the world economy, which is already struggling from weak manufacturing activity. Dow (INDU) futures briefly tumbled more than 400 points during Asian trading hours on Wednesday. —CNN's John Defterios, Veronica Rocha and Meg Wagner contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-03T09:58:47Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/03/business/china-eastern-coronavirus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham and Serenitie Wang, CNN Business
headline: China Eastern suspends flights to the United States over coronavirus outbreak - CNN
description : China Eastern has become the first major Chinese carrier to suspend flights to and from the United States amid the escalating Wuhan coronavirus outbreak.
keywords : business, China Eastern suspends flights to the United States over coronavirus outbreak - CNN
content: The virus has killed 361 people and sickened more than 17,000 in China so far, with nearly 180 cases confirmed in countries such as the United States, Germany and Japan. One man has died in the Philippines. Due to "the recent public health incident," China Eastern is canceling flights from Shanghai (PVG) to Los Angeles and New York (JFK) from February 2 through February 10, according to a notice circulated to travel agents and seen by CNN Business. Flights to the major US hubs were unavailable to book on China Eastern's website until March 29, however. China Eastern (CEA) did not respond to a request for comment. China Eastern is also canceling flights from Shanghai (PVG) to San Francisco on February 6 and February 9, to Chicago on February 8 and to Honolulu from February 3 until March 27, according to the notice.Several flights to Los Angeles, San Francisco and Vancouver, Canada, that originate in Chengdu or Kunming with layovers in Nanjing or Qingdao have also been canceled this week."In the days to come, China Eastern will pay close attention to the epidemic, and may further adjust the arrangements of flights," the notice said.China's two other major carriers, Air China (AIRYY) and China Southern (ZNH), did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Direct flights to the United States were still available to book on Air China and China Southern's websites on Monday. Shares in all three companies fell by about 10% — the daily maximum limit — in Shanghai on Monday, the first day of trading following the extended Lunar New Year holiday. The wider market closed down 8%.Major international airlines such Air Canada, (ACDVF) American Airlines (AAL), British Airways, Delta (DAL), Lufthansa (DLAKY) and Qatar Airways have already suspended all flights to and from mainland China until the end of February or longer. United Airlines (UAL) said Friday it was suspending flights from its US hub cities and Beijing, Chengdu and Shanghai from February 6 to March 28. This week, the carrier will "operate select flights to help ensure our US-based employees, as well as customers, have options to return home," it said in a statement.A growing number of countries, including the United States, Australia, New Zealand and South Korea, have begun barring entry to all foreigners who have traveled to mainland China, with Italy and Israel stopping all incoming air traffic from the country. Many more countries have told their citizens not to travel to mainland China. Beijing officials said on Sunday that the outbreak has nearly wiped out all inbound travel to China's capital city. Train and flight bookings to Beijing in the coming days has plunged more than 70% compared to a year earlier, Rong Jun, deputy commissioner of the Beijing Transportation Commission, told reporters on Sunday. He did not specify a time frame. Travel to and from Beijing also fell more than 60% during the Lunar New Year period, China's peak travel season, Rong added. -- Alexandra Lin contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-04T10:55:40Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/04/business/macao-casinos-suspended-coronavirus-outbreak/index.html
author: Michelle Toh, Sandi Sidhu and Chermaine Lee, CNN Business
headline: Macao will close its casinos for two weeks over the coronavirus outbreak - CNN
description : Macao, one of the world's top gambling hubs, is planning to close its casinos as the deadly coronavirus outbreak continues to surge. 
keywords : business, Macao will close its casinos for two weeks over the coronavirus outbreak - CNN
content: The government of the semi-autonomous Chinese territory will suspend operations in gambling and other related industries for about two weeks, Macao Chief Executive Ho Iat Seng said during a press conference Tuesday.Macao has 10 confirmed cases of the coronavirus, which has killed at least 427 people and infected more than 20,000, mainly in China.Ho said that the decision was made after an expert review, as the ninth confirmed patient was discovered to have worked in the gambling industry. Macao officials told CNN that the date the suspension will start hasn't yet been decided. The city's leader planned to meet with representatives from gambling companies on Tuesday.Casino stocks dropped in Hong Kong following the announcement. Galaxy Entertainment and Sands China, both components of the Hang Seng Index (HSI), declined by 2%.Shares in Wynn Macau (WYNMF) and MGM China (MCHVF), which also trade in Hong Kong, fell 1.7% and 2.2%, respectively.  In the United States, Wynn (WYNN) and MGM (MGM) tumbled 3% in premarket trading. Las Vegas Sands (LVS) fell 5%.Gambling is the lifeblood of Macao, a vibrant southern Chinese city that depends on millions of visitors from mainland China. But the recent global health scare has threatened the business model at the heart of Macao's economy. Last year, the city received almost 40 million visitors. Now, streets and squares once teeming with tourists from mainland China are empty. Ambulances roam the city, operated by emergency workers dressed in hazardous materials suits.According to the Macao government, January tourism figures plunged 87% compared to the previous year, even though the busiest holiday of the year — Lunar New Year — fell during that period.— Laura He, Ivan Watson and Brad Olson contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-06T18:36:12Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/06/business/huawei-verizon-lawsuit-trnd/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Huawei sues Verizon for alleged patent infringement  - CNN
description : Chinese technology company Huawei filed two lawsuits against Verizon in US courts on Thursday. 
keywords : business, Huawei sues Verizon for alleged patent infringement  - CNN
content: The Chinese company is suing the US carrier seeking compensation for alleged unauthorized use of Huawei patents for optical transmission, digital communications and related services.Huawei is the world's largest telecommunications equipment maker and a leading smartphone brand. But the Shenzhen-based company has a very limited presence in the United States, where it has been barred from supplying core equipment to major US carriers for years. Nevertheless, Huawei's technology has found its way into the US network because Verizon buys telecommunications equipment that uses the Chinese company's technology from other vendors. Some of that equipment, according to Huawei, doesn't have cross-license agreements. "For years now we have successfully negotiated patent license agreements with many companies," Huawei chief legal officer Song Liuping said in a press release."This is the common practice in the industry. Huawei is simply asking that Verizon respect Huawei's investment in research and development by either paying for the use of our patents, or refraining from using them in its products and services," he added. The lawsuits did not indicate how much Huawei is seeking in compensation from Verizon. A spokesperson from Verizon did not immediately respond to a request for comment.  The latest legal action is part of Huawei's broader strategy of fighting Washington's pressure campaign on the Chinese company through US courts and public opinion. Last March, Huawei sued the US government over a law that banned federal agencies from buying its products. In December, it sued the US government again, this time over new restrictions from the Federal Communications Commission. Huawei executives have published op-eds in the Wall Street Journal and USA Today, insisting that it is a private company and "not a tool of the Chinese government."The company has also dramatically upped its spending on Washington lobbyists to nearly $3 million last year, compared to $165,000 in 2018, according to Open Secrets, a nonprofit, nonpartisan research group based in Washington.Washington maintains that Huawei poses a national security threat and has taken several steps to curb its business, including barring US companies from supplying the Chinese firm with key tech and software. The Trump administration has also argued that installing Huawei's equipment in US networks could allow Chinese spies to eavesdrop on sensitive US communications. Huawei denies the allegations and says none of its products poses a national security risk.Despite the prolonged American campaign against its business, Huawei managed to increase sales to 850 billion yuan ($122 billion) in 2019, up 18% from the previous year.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-28T11:16:04Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/28/business/geneva-car-show/index.html
author: Charles Riley and Eoin McSweeney, CNN Business
headline: Geneva car show canceled as coronavirus spreads in Europe - CNN
description : The Geneva Motor Show has been canceled because of coronavirus fears, striking a marquee event from global auto industry's calendar as it braces for a third year of recession.

keywords : business, Geneva car show canceled as coronavirus spreads in Europe - CNN
content: Switzerland's Federal Office of Public Health on Friday said that gatherings of more than 1,000 people had been banned through at least March 15 in a bid to restrict the spread of the virus."We regret this situation, but the health of all participants is our and our exhibitors' top priority," the car show's organizers said in a statement on Friday.This year's event was set to open to journalists on March 2. The public would have been able to attend from March 5 through March 15. Some carmakers had already pared back their presence at the show because of the coronavirus outbreak. Toyota (TM), for example, said it was only sending senior executives and public relations staff with responsibilities for Europe. According to the organizers, roughly 220 exhibitors attend the annual car show, along with 10,000 journalists and roughly 660,000 visitors.The show in Geneva is a showcase for some of the world's most expensive and exclusive cars, but it's also used to launch more mainstream models. Volkswagen (VLKAF) said this week that three versions of its best-selling Golf would premier in Geneva, including the high performance GTI.BMW (BAMXF) said Friday it would go ahead with the unveiling of its Concept i4 via a live-streamed event from company headquarters in Munich on Tuesday. The Geneva show was called off after Swiss authorities reported 15 coronavirus cases. Italy has at least 650 infections and 17 deaths, while French officials have reported 38 cases and two deaths.David Leggett, automotive editor at analytics company GlobalData, said that organizers were "slow" to cancel the show following a surge of coronavirus cases in northern Italy last weekend."The organizers seemed reluctant to face up to the reality of the public health crisis," he said.For carmakers, the loss of the Geneva event is the latest in a series of body blows. The coronavirus has forced automakers to shutter factories in China, the world's largest market for vehicles, and sales there have slumped. Plant closures, snarled supply chains and weaker consumer confidence threaten to push the industry even deeper into recession. The number of vehicles sold across major global markets dipped to 90.3 million in 2019, according to analysts at LMC Automotive. That's down from 94.4 million in 2018, and well below the record 95.2 million cars sold in 2017.The sales decline is making it even tougher for the industry to meet the huge challenge of ditching the internal combustion engine and tackling the climate crisis. The car show is the second major European business event to be canceled because of coronavirus. Mobile World Congress, a huge tech summit in Barcelona that typically attracts more than 100,000 people, was called off earlier this month.On Thursday, Facebook (FB) canceled F8, its biggest annual event, due to concerns over the coronavirus.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-06T14:17:08Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/06/business/global-autos-coronavirus-china/index.html
author: Analysis by Jill Disis and Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Global auto industry braced for China coronavirus shock  - CNN
description : For decades, China was the promised land for American, European and Japanese carmakers. Now, the coronavirus outbreak threatens to prolong a slump in vehicle sales, derail production in the country and snarl global auto supply chains. 
keywords : business, Global auto industry braced for China coronavirus shock  - CNN
content: Volkswagen (VLKAF), Toyota (TM), Daimler (DDAIF), General Motors (GM), Renault (RNLSY), Honda (HMC) and Hyundai (HYMTF) are among the global carmakers who have invested heavily in China, forming partnerships with local companies and building vast factories. China makes more cars than any other country, and is also the world's biggest market. When car plants across China shut last month for the Lunar New Year holiday, the industry was already under huge pressure: sales had been falling for two years due to the loss of tax incentives for electric cars and the slowing economy, and officials were expecting an unprecedented third year of stagnation. Many of those plants have since been ordered to remain shut at least until next week as the Chinese government scrambles to contain the virus that first appeared in Wuhan, a major autos hub, before sweeping across the country, infecting thousands of people and killing hundreds. Automakers are bracing for even longer shutdowns and a deeper recession in global sales.Sales and production to sufferClose to 60 million people are still living under lockdown in China, with three cities reporting over a thousand confirmed coronavirus cases each. Meanwhile, the virus continues to spread, keeping huge numbers of potential shoppers at home until the outbreak peaks."We assume consumers will tend to avoid purchasing cars in dealer shops until then to reduce contagion risk," analysts at S&P Global Ratings said in a report published Wednesday.The extended factory closures are expected to make it much more difficult for the industry to emerge from its recession. According to S&P Global Ratings, the outbreak will force carmakers in China to slash production by about 15% in the first quarter.The auto industry is particularly exposed because the virus originated in one of China's "motor cities." General Motors, Nissan (NSANF), Renault, Honda and Peugeot owner PSA Group (PUGOY) all have large factories in Wuhan, which has been on lockdown since late January. Wuhan and the rest of Hubei province account for 9% of total Chinese auto production, according to S&P Global Ratings. PSA Group told CNN Business this week that its Wuhan plant would remain closed until at least February 14, though a spokesperson added that its European operations have not yet been affected by any parts or logistical disruptions.Other carmakers are also trying to assess the fallout from the outbreak and keep it to a minimum."It's a very fluid situation," GM CEO Mary Barra told investors Wednesday during an earnings presentation. She said the company is working with its Chinese partners and local health authorities to make sure the supply chain is not disrupted. Germany's Daimler and Volkswagen have said they expect to resume some vehicle production in China on Monday, though both firms added that they continue to monitor the situation and will adjust plans as needed. Volkswagen is most exposed to potential damage. The world's largest automaker has 24 plants making cars or parts in China, accounting for 40% of its production. On Wednesday, Volkswagen said that its supply chain "is on track to be fully functional in time for the start of production," and that planned deliveries to customers haven't changed.Toyota, which makes 15% of its cars in China but is less exposed than Japanese rival Honda, is also worried. The world's second biggest carmaker had been hoping to restart production on February 10, but it has been forced to keep its 12 joint venture plants in China — four making cars and eight making parts or components — closed for another week at least. "The situation varies depending on the plant and its supply of parts. Also, there are additional considerations that must be given to the guidelines from local and region governments, including things like logistics, so we cannot definitively say whether we will restart plant operations from February 17," a Toyota spokesperson said.The situation could get worse before it gets better. S&P Global Ratings researchers said the Chinese government could extend factory shutdowns in order to limit contagion risk, affecting as much as half of China's car and auto parts production. Car plants in cities such as Shanghai and Tianjin — many hundreds of miles away from Wuhan — could be out of commission for an "extended" period, they warned.The risks beyond ChinaThe longer the crisis drags on, the greater the chance that global auto supply chains will be damaged.German engineering firm Bosch, which is the world's largest auto component manufacturer, has dozens of plants in China including two in Wuhan. Other parts suppliers including Schaeffler, ZF Friedrichshafen, Faurecia and Valeo have significant operations in the country, according to S&P Global Ratings. A spokesperson for Bosch said Thursday that its plants in China remain closed on government orders, but production is expected to resume at many locations "within the next few days." The spokesperson said it was still too early to assess the impact to the company.China is also the global manufacturing base for electric motors, transmissions, and other components for electric cars. Tesla (TSLA), which sources parts from multiple companies in China, has already said that production will be delayed at its new factory in Shanghai.Crunch time has arrived for one major carmaker. Hyundai (HYMTF) suspended production this week at its plants in South Korea because the coronavirus disrupted its supply of parts.Korea's car sector sources 29% of its parts from China, according to Simon MacAdam, global economist at Capital Economics. He said that Hyundai's decision underscores how valuable China is to major manufacturing supply chains around the world."Even industries that appear to have low exposure to Chinese suppliers will almost certainly contain firms that are heavily reliant on inputs from China," MacAdam wrote Wednesday in a research note. "It only takes bottlenecks in the production of one low-value, but crucial, component to bring higher-value, downstream production to a halt.— Laura He, Sherisse Pham, Chris Isidore and Enjoji Kaori contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-06T01:19:46Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/05/business/shipping-coronavirus-impact/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Global shipping has been hit by the coronavirus - CNN
description : The arteries of global trade are clogging up as the coronavirus disrupts global shipping and air cargo operations.
keywords : business, Global shipping has been hit by the coronavirus - CNN
content: Shipping companies that carry goods from China to the rest of the world say they are reducing the number of seaborne vessels, as measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus crimp demand for their services and threaten to disrupt global supply chains.About 80% of world goods trade by volume is carried by sea and China is home to seven of the world's 10 busiest container ports, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Nearby Singapore and South Korea each have a mega port too."A closure of the world's manufacturing hub impacts container shipping at large, as it is a vital facilitator of the intra-Asian and global supply chains," said Peter Sand, chief shipping analyst at BIMCO, an international shipping association. "This will affect many industries and limit demand for containerized goods transport," Sand told CNN Business.Everything from cars and machinery to apparel and other consumer staples are shipped in containers, and disruption to the industry could reverberate far beyond China as the country seeks to contain the coronavirus outbreak by keeping factories shut and workers at home.The longer the health crisis lasts, the harder it will be to move goods around the world. The coronavirus outbreak has killed more than 560 people and infected at least 28,000 — mainly in China, where close to 60 million people are living in cities on lockdown.Already, carmaker Hyundai (HYMTF) has suspended production at its plants in South Korea because of a disruption to the supply of parts caused by the coronavirus outbreak in China, the company said in a statement. Floating quarantineThe shutdowns mean that some ships can't get into Chinese ports, as the loading and discharging of goods slows, said Guy Platten, secretary general of the International Chamber of Shipping, a trade body. Others are stuck in dock, waiting for workers to return to ports so that construction and repairs can be completed, Platten added.Still more vessels are idling in "floating quarantined zones," as countries such as Australia refuse to allow ships that have called at Chinese ports to enter their own until the crew has been declared virus-free, added Sand. Platten said he knew of at least one crew that is running low on food because their ship has been idled for so long.In Singapore, authorities are requiring all vessels that have called at ports in mainland China over the past 14 days to submit a health declaration form. According to port authorities, some shipping companies have taken additional measures, including canceling shore leave for crew, but port operations have not been disrupted.Giant shipping companies such as Maersk, MSC Mediterranean Shipping, Hapag-Lloyd and CMA-CGM have said that they have reduced the number of vessels on routes connecting China and Hong Kong with India, Canada, the United States and West Africa. The shipowners say that moves to idle Chinese factories beyond the end of the Lunar New Year has curtailed demand for vessels and forced them to adjust their capacity during what is already a low season for shipping because of the Chinese holiday.BIMCO members, which include 1,900 shipowners, operators, managers, brokers and agents, report limited or no demand from Chinese buyers of seaborne commodities, such as coal, crude oil and iron ore, said Sand. The lack of activity is reflected in oil prices, which have crashed into a bear market.Logistics company Freightos warned clients to expect delays in getting goods out of China, and consider shifting some shipments from sea to air or even sourcing goods from other countries where possible. The backlog of shipments that typically follows the Lunar New Year will be made worse by the current situation, pushing ocean freight rates up and exacerbating delays, Freightos said.Air cargo disruptedIt's not just shipping that's been affected.IAG Cargo, the air cargo arm of British Airways parent IAG (ICAGY), on Monday canceled all services to and from mainland China for at least the remainder of the month, citing a UK government travel advisory, according to a statement on its website.German logistics group DHL has reported "severe disruptions to inbound and outbound air cargo shipments, trucking and rail cargo services." The lockdowns could have a "major impact on supply chain operations and industrial production" in China across industries such as automotive, pharmaceutical and medical supplies, and high-tech manufacturing, it said in a report. DHL has suspended deliveries in Hubei province, the epicenter of the virus, but said it doesn't foresee other changes to its operations. UPS (UPS) and FedEx Express (FDX) said they continue to fly into and out of China. UPS said it has seen reduced demand for its services as a result of business closures. — Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly characterized measures taken by authorities in Singapore. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-30T17:50:38Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/30/business/coronavirus-cruise-stock-drop/index.html
author: Daniela Sirtori-Cortina, CNN Business
headline: cruise coronavirus stock drop - CNN
description : Cruise stocks fell Thursday amid revelations that 7,000 people are being held on a cruise in Italy after a passenger showed symptoms of the Wuhan coronavirus. 
keywords : business, cruise coronavirus stock drop - CNN
content: Shares of Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings, Royal Caribbean Cruises and Carnival Corporation tumbled in morning trading in New York, at times sliding as much as 5%.The drop came as two Italian media outlets reported a woman and her husband from Hong Kong were each being kept in solitary confinement in the hospital section of an unidentified Costa Cruises ship. The cruiseliner, a Carnival subsidiary, plans to keep the remaining passengers and crew aboard the ship until the couple tests negative for the infection.A spokesperson for Costa Cruises told CNN that a 54-year-old woman aboard the ship had a fever, a symptom of the virus. "All the other passengers are, at the moment, remaining on board," the spokesperson said. The coronavirus, which originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan in Hubei Province, has killed 170 people as of Thursday morning and there are 7,800 diagnosed worldwide. China's government put travel restrictions in certain places across the country in an attempt to contain the virus. More than 60 million people are affected. In a Jan. 28 securities filing, Carnival (CCL) said these measures led it to suspend operations from Chinese ports from Jan. 25 to Feb. 4, resulting in nine cruise line cancellations. The company also said the restrictions could cause Chinese clients to cancel bookings for cruises that sail from outside of China. Fallout from the coronavirus could cut earnings by $0.03 to $0.04 per share, Carnival said, and by $0.05 to $0.06 if the restrictions extend until the end of February. The Miami-based firm had expected to deploy 5% of its global capacity in China in fiscal year 2020.Meanwhile, Royal Caribbean (RCL) said it has canceled three sailings until Feb. 8, saying this would have an impact on its 2020 financial results of about $0.10 per share, and double that if travel restrictions remain in place until the end of February. A spokesperson for Norwegian (NCLH) said the company wasn't changing its itineraries and that it was checking the temperature of all passengers boarding in Hong Kong. Anyone with a fever of 100.4°F or higher will not be allowed to board, nor will any guests who visited mainland China in the last 30 days. The coronavirus has caused the closures of stores owned by Starbucks, Ikea and McDonald's in certain areas of China. British Airways, United Airlines, American Airlines and a host of other global carriers have either stopped flying there or said they would cut back on the number of flights.On Monday, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a level 3 warning, its highest-degree alert, telling travelers to avoid non-essential travel to China. The agency also said the immediate health risk to the American public remained low.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-03T21:45:59Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/03/business/oil-prices-bear-market-coronavirus/index.html
author: Matt Egan, CNN Business
headline: The coronavirus is clobbering oil prices - CNN
description : Crude oil has crashed into yet another bear market on fears that the coronavirus outbreak will destroy demand in China, the world's largest crude importer. 
keywords : business, The coronavirus is clobbering oil prices - CNN
content: US oil tumbled another 2.8% on Monday and briefly broke below $50 a barrel for the first time since January 2019. Crude finished at $50.11 a barrel, leaving it down nearly 21% from the recent closing high of $63.27 a barrel on January 6. A bear market is frequently defined as a drop of more than 20% from previous highs. Energy markets have been clobbered by the rapid spread of the coronavirus, which has killed more than 360 people and infected more than 17,000 around the world. The virus has also caused countless flight cancellations and brought parts of the Chinese economy to a standstill.  "There's a lot of fear in the market. And a lot of forced liquidations," said Ryan Fitzmaurice, energy strategist at Rabobank. Oil prices had been on the rise to start the year as investors bet the US-China Phase One trade deal would revive the global economy. Crude also momentarily spiked on surging tensions between the United States and Iran. 'Things really snowballed'The energy selloff began after US-Iran tensions eased, lowering the chances of a supply disruption in the Middle East. But oil prices, along with the stock market, have since been rattled by the coronavirus outbreak. "This virus showed up and that's when things really snowballed," said Fitzmaurice. Investors are worried that the coronavirus will hurt demand for jet fuel. Major international airlines including Air Canada, American Airlines (AAL), Delta (DAL) and British Airways have suspended all flights to and from mainland China until the end of February or longer. China Eastern on Monday became the first major Chinese carrier to suspend flights to and from the United States. The coronavirus has alarmed investors because it's spreading rapidly in China, the most important source of demand for energy in the world. China relies on heavy amounts of oil to keep its fast-growing economy humming and to move its enormous population.  China imported more than 10 million barrels of oil per day in 2019, making it the world's biggest importer. It was the 17th straight year of record oil imports, according to Reuters. "The question is how quickly will the virus get contained, allowing economic activity to resume?" said Ben Cook, portfolio manager at BP Capital Fund.  Demand is dropping sharplyIn a worst-case scenario, oil demand is expected to plunge by 2.6 million barrels per day in February and 2 million barrels in March, according to Platts Analytics. Even the best-case scenario by Platts calls for a drop of 900,000 barrels in oil demand for February.  The notoriously boom-to-bust oil market is no stranger to bear markets. Yet even by oil's standards, these downdrafts are occurring more frequently. Crude has now plunged into four bear markets just since the start of 2017. That has helped lead to a dreadful performance for energy stocks.Yet unlike these prior plunges, this bear market is being driven by diminished demand, not excess supply. History shows it can take the energy market time to rebound from health shocks.  It took US oil prices more than 10 months to recover in 2003 from the SARS crisis, according to CFRA Research.  
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-01-20T09:28:39Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/20/business/global-auto-recession/index.html
author: Analysis by Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: The recession in global car sales shows no sign of ending - CNN
description : The global auto industry plunged deeper into recession in 2019, with sales dropping more than 4% as carmakers struggled to find buyers in China and India. The pain is likely to continue this year. 
keywords : business, The recession in global car sales shows no sign of ending - CNN
content: The number of vehicles sold across major global markets dipped to 90.3 million last year, according to analysts at LMC Automotive. That's down from 94.4 million in 2018, and well below the record 95.2 million cars sold in 2017.The slump has upended an industry that is grappling with the huge challenge of ditching the internal combustion engine to tackle the climate crisis. Some experts have even begun to speculate that the world may have reached "peak car," or the point at which global demand for vehicles begins an inexorable decline. Recession comes with big ramifications for the global economy. According to the International Monetary Fund, the car industry accounts for 5.7% of economic output and 8% of goods exports. It is the second largest consumer of steel and aluminum. The biggest blow to carmakers last year came in China, the world's largest market for vehicles, where a sharp slowdown in economic growth and the elimination of tax incentives for electric car purchases caused demand to plummet. The number of vehicles sold dropped 2.3 million from 2018, said LMC. In India, another huge market where carmakers had invested heavily, consumers held off on big purchases because of a credit crunch and a weakening economy. Conditions were also tough in Europe, where Brexit and Volkswagen's (VLKAF) diesel emissions crisis continued to scare off potential buyers and force executives to review investments.The pressure has sparked a wave of partnerships across the industry. Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) is merging with Peugeot owner PSA Group (PUGOY) and Volkswagen (VLKAF) has teamed up with Ford to develop electric cars. German rivals Daimler (DDAIF) and BMW (BMWYY) have joined forces to develop ride sharing and driverless technology.Yet the outlook for 2020 isn't much brighter. China's industry minister Miao Wei said Monday that this year and next would be "critical" for the car market and that vehicle sales in the country could be flat "or slightly negative" in 2020.LMC expects global sales to fall below 90 million, down 0.3% on the previous year. "There is unlikely to be any real support to the global total from the mature markets like western Europe and the United States," said Jonathon Poskitt, director of global sales forecasts at LMC.The big question is when — or even whether — the auto industry will return to growth. Poskitt said the vehicle sales record hit in 2017 is unlikely to be surpassed in the next few years, in part because of reduced demand in wealthy cities that are struggling with traffic congestion and increased pollution. In those urban areas, potential buyers might be more likely to use car sharing programs or public transportation. But LMC forecasts that demand in less developed areas will eventually result in new global sales records, starting in 2023."Many markets in the world are not yet at what we would consider to be mature levels, and as income grows so does the affordability of vehicle ownership," said Poskitt. "Considering the low levels of car density in China and India alone, there remains the potential for solid market expansion as some of the more immediate headwinds ease."Yet there is considerable uncertainty over how the transition from cars powered by diesel and gasoline to vehicles that run on electricity will affect sales, to say nothing of the possibility that individual car ownership will gradually be replaced by fleets of autonomous cars providing rides on demand. Among the immediate challenges facing global carmakers: Electric vehicles cost significantly more than conventional models, require fewer workers to assemble and rely on dramatically shorter supply chains. And in Europe at least, those supply chains face serious disruption from Brexit."Automakers are facing challenges that mean they will have to make changes to business models above and beyond those required by technological reconfiguration," the IMF said in its October World Economic Outlook.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-13T11:42:57Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/13/business/china-car-industry-coronavirus/index.html
author: Laura He, CNN Business
headline: China's autoparts supply chain will be disrupted by coronavirus, industry association says - CNN
description : The global auto industry knew that the coronavirus outbreak would be damaging. Now China is starting to reveal how bad the problem could get. 
keywords : business, China's autoparts supply chain will be disrupted by coronavirus, industry association says - CNN
content: Major automakers sold fewer than 2 million cars in the country last month, an 18% plunge from a year earlier, according to China's Association of Automobile Manufacturers. The group compiles its monthly tally by collecting data from carmakers in China.The government-backed industry group acknowledged that the novel coronavirus played a role in January's big drop, and said declines could be even steeper in February. The association said the virus will deliver a "huge shock" to the car industry, adding that it expects the impact to be worse than 2003's SARS epidemic. The growth of car sales in China slowed to 13% in April 2003 and 8% that May — sharply lower than the 34% growth it recorded in March of that year. The industry later rebounded, though.The coronavirus is hitting a Chinese car industry that's already under huge stress. Sales have now declined for 19 consecutive months, according to the association's data. The spread of the virus, which has killed more than 1,300 people and infected at least 60,000 others, threatens to push the industry even deeper into recession. The outbreak will disrupt China's auto supply chain, the industry group said, adding that the disease could have a "butterfly effect" on the global car industry. Many auto plants in China have already been shut for weeks, and further delays are possible as the government attempts to contain the virus. Toyota (TM), for example, said last week that it won't reopen its plants in China until at least Monday. The auto association said that only 59 out of 183 factories in China that manufacture complete cars had resumed production as of Wednesday. Experts fear that car plants across the globe could grind to a halt if parts suppliers in China also remain closed for much longer. China's push for the adoption of new energy vehicles, such as electric or plug-in hybrid cars, may also be in trouble. Sales of those cars plummeted 54% in January to 44,000 units. Sales of electric vehicles were already falling. The government has been cutting subsidies for those types of vehicles since last July as it tries to weed out an overcrowded market.-- Jill Disis and Charles Riley contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-06T14:17:08Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/06/business/global-autos-coronavirus-china/index.html
author: Analysis by Jill Disis and Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Global auto industry braced for China coronavirus shock  - CNN
description : For decades, China was the promised land for American, European and Japanese carmakers. Now, the coronavirus outbreak threatens to prolong a slump in vehicle sales, derail production in the country and snarl global auto supply chains. 
keywords : business, Global auto industry braced for China coronavirus shock  - CNN
content: Volkswagen (VLKAF), Toyota (TM), Daimler (DDAIF), General Motors (GM), Renault (RNLSY), Honda (HMC) and Hyundai (HYMTF) are among the global carmakers who have invested heavily in China, forming partnerships with local companies and building vast factories. China makes more cars than any other country, and is also the world's biggest market. When car plants across China shut last month for the Lunar New Year holiday, the industry was already under huge pressure: sales had been falling for two years due to the loss of tax incentives for electric cars and the slowing economy, and officials were expecting an unprecedented third year of stagnation. Many of those plants have since been ordered to remain shut at least until next week as the Chinese government scrambles to contain the virus that first appeared in Wuhan, a major autos hub, before sweeping across the country, infecting thousands of people and killing hundreds. Automakers are bracing for even longer shutdowns and a deeper recession in global sales.Sales and production to sufferClose to 60 million people are still living under lockdown in China, with three cities reporting over a thousand confirmed coronavirus cases each. Meanwhile, the virus continues to spread, keeping huge numbers of potential shoppers at home until the outbreak peaks."We assume consumers will tend to avoid purchasing cars in dealer shops until then to reduce contagion risk," analysts at S&P Global Ratings said in a report published Wednesday.The extended factory closures are expected to make it much more difficult for the industry to emerge from its recession. According to S&P Global Ratings, the outbreak will force carmakers in China to slash production by about 15% in the first quarter.The auto industry is particularly exposed because the virus originated in one of China's "motor cities." General Motors, Nissan (NSANF), Renault, Honda and Peugeot owner PSA Group (PUGOY) all have large factories in Wuhan, which has been on lockdown since late January. Wuhan and the rest of Hubei province account for 9% of total Chinese auto production, according to S&P Global Ratings. PSA Group told CNN Business this week that its Wuhan plant would remain closed until at least February 14, though a spokesperson added that its European operations have not yet been affected by any parts or logistical disruptions.Other carmakers are also trying to assess the fallout from the outbreak and keep it to a minimum."It's a very fluid situation," GM CEO Mary Barra told investors Wednesday during an earnings presentation. She said the company is working with its Chinese partners and local health authorities to make sure the supply chain is not disrupted. Germany's Daimler and Volkswagen have said they expect to resume some vehicle production in China on Monday, though both firms added that they continue to monitor the situation and will adjust plans as needed. Volkswagen is most exposed to potential damage. The world's largest automaker has 24 plants making cars or parts in China, accounting for 40% of its production. On Wednesday, Volkswagen said that its supply chain "is on track to be fully functional in time for the start of production," and that planned deliveries to customers haven't changed.Toyota, which makes 15% of its cars in China but is less exposed than Japanese rival Honda, is also worried. The world's second biggest carmaker had been hoping to restart production on February 10, but it has been forced to keep its 12 joint venture plants in China — four making cars and eight making parts or components — closed for another week at least. "The situation varies depending on the plant and its supply of parts. Also, there are additional considerations that must be given to the guidelines from local and region governments, including things like logistics, so we cannot definitively say whether we will restart plant operations from February 17," a Toyota spokesperson said.The situation could get worse before it gets better. S&P Global Ratings researchers said the Chinese government could extend factory shutdowns in order to limit contagion risk, affecting as much as half of China's car and auto parts production. Car plants in cities such as Shanghai and Tianjin — many hundreds of miles away from Wuhan — could be out of commission for an "extended" period, they warned.The risks beyond ChinaThe longer the crisis drags on, the greater the chance that global auto supply chains will be damaged.German engineering firm Bosch, which is the world's largest auto component manufacturer, has dozens of plants in China including two in Wuhan. Other parts suppliers including Schaeffler, ZF Friedrichshafen, Faurecia and Valeo have significant operations in the country, according to S&P Global Ratings. A spokesperson for Bosch said Thursday that its plants in China remain closed on government orders, but production is expected to resume at many locations "within the next few days." The spokesperson said it was still too early to assess the impact to the company.China is also the global manufacturing base for electric motors, transmissions, and other components for electric cars. Tesla (TSLA), which sources parts from multiple companies in China, has already said that production will be delayed at its new factory in Shanghai.Crunch time has arrived for one major carmaker. Hyundai (HYMTF) suspended production this week at its plants in South Korea because the coronavirus disrupted its supply of parts.Korea's car sector sources 29% of its parts from China, according to Simon MacAdam, global economist at Capital Economics. He said that Hyundai's decision underscores how valuable China is to major manufacturing supply chains around the world."Even industries that appear to have low exposure to Chinese suppliers will almost certainly contain firms that are heavily reliant on inputs from China," MacAdam wrote Wednesday in a research note. "It only takes bottlenecks in the production of one low-value, but crucial, component to bring higher-value, downstream production to a halt.— Laura He, Sherisse Pham, Chris Isidore and Enjoji Kaori contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-09T16:38:25Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/09/business/china-coronavirus-global-auto-industry-impact/index.html
author: Chris Isidore, CNN Business
headline: Coronavirus crisis could shut auto plants around the world - CNN
description : The human cost of China's coronavirus outbreak is tragic, mounting and already readily apparent. The cost to businesses around the world could also become severe in the coming weeks.
keywords : business, Coronavirus crisis could shut auto plants around the world - CNN
content: Manufacturers around the world have come to depend on parts from China to keep their own supply chains going. Experts fear that factories across the globe could ground to a halt if many of the plants across China remain closed this coming week.Auto plants could be among the first to feel the impact. That's because of the massive size of the Chinese auto parts industry and the fact that you can't build a car with only 99% of its parts."It only takes one missing part to stop a line," said Mike Dunne, a consultant to the auto industry in Asia and the former head of GM's operations in Indonesia.  He said there have been many examples in the past where problems like a fire or natural disaster shutting a single supplier plant can affect auto plants around the world. This could be far worse depending on how widespread the shutdown of plants due to the virus becomes.China is a major supplier of parts to auto plants around the world -- shipping nearly $35 billion of parts in 2018, according to UN data. About $20 billion of Chinese parts were exported to the United States alone in 2018, according to the Commerce Department's International Trade Administration. While some of those parts go to auto parts retail stores, a large percentage of them go to assembly lines and are to used to build cars.And experts say the parts at risk are likely greater than that, since many Chinese parts, from computer chips down to screws and bolts, are not classified simply as auto parts the way a bumper or engine piston is classified that way. Also Chinese parts often end up being used in auto parts that are built in other countries.Finding replacements for all those parts is not practical if the supply continues to be disrupted, said Kristin Dziczek, vice president of the Center for Automotive Research, a Michigan think tank."It's difficult to say when it will start to bite here," she said. "I would expect to see a cascading global impact by the end of February if Chinese production doesn't come back [this week]. All automakers have a supply chain war room going on right now to determine what they can be doing. But China is so huge, there is no way they cannot be impacted."So far most of the auto assembly plants in China are closed, and they're there to serve the Chinese market. Volkswagen announced it was keeping its Chinese auto plants shut partly due to travel restrictions there and partly due to the lack of parts. General Motors said it won't restart its Chinese plants until Feb. 15, partly due to problems with "supply chain readiness."But it has already started to spread to plants elsewhere. Hyundai has shut its assembly plants in South Korea, not because the disease itself has spread there but because it can't keep the plants operating without Chinese parts. Nissan said that its plant in Kyushu, Japan would have "production adjustments" due to a shortage of Chinese parts. French automaker Renault told Reuters that it also was suspending production at a plant in Busan, South Korea, due to disruptions in supplies of Chinese parts. Last week, Fiat Chrysler said it has one European plant at risk from the lack of Chinese parts in the next two to four weeks. All the other automakers will say they are closely monitoring the situation in China but that it's too soon to say what the impact on their global operations will be."It's a very fluid situation," said GM CEO Mary Barra last week when speaking to investors.Experts say the global auto industry hasn't seen the full impact before now because the plants had been scheduled to closed for the lunar new year. So many assembly plants had an extra inventory of parts going into the holiday. While the shutdown was extended by a week due to the outbreak, most plants haven't run out of Chinese parts yet. But that can't last.The prospect of widespread halts at global auto plants becomes a lot more likely if the plant shutdowns continue, said Simon MacAdam global economist at Capital Economics in London. "At the moment it's rather difficult to tell," he said. "A supply chain is only as strong as the weakest link. That's why there's such uncertainty about estimates." Even if the plants try to reopen, it's not clear if they'll be able to operate as normal due to potential labor shortages, or in the worst case scenario, a further spreading of the disease, said Dunne. And getting the parts shipped won't be business as usual. "They're supposed to start getting back to work Monday," said Dunne. "But even then, it will be a start-stop. Some cities will have road blocks, some won't have flights. We're going to be in for an interesting time starting this week."
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-08T05:16:03Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/08/business/coronavirus-global-economy/index.html
author: Analysis by Charles Riley and Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: The coronavirus is already hurting the world economy. Here's why it could get really scary - CNN
description : Nearly two decades have passed since a coronavirus known as SARS emerged in China, killing hundreds of people and sparking panic that sent a chill through the global economy. The virus now rampaging across China could be much more damaging. 
keywords : business, The coronavirus is already hurting the world economy. Here's why it could get really scary - CNN
content: China has become an indispensable part of global business since the 2003 SARS outbreak. It's grown into the world's factory, churning out products such as the iPhone and driving demand for commodities like oil and copper. The country also boasts hundreds of millions of wealthy consumers who spend big on luxury products, tourism and cars. China's economy accounted for roughly 4% of world GDP in 2003; it now makes up 16% of global output.SARS sickened 8,098 people and killed 774 before it was contained. The new coronavirus, which originated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, has already killed more than 900 people and infected over 40,000 across at least 25 countries and territories. Chinese officials have locked down Wuhan and several other cities, but the virus continues to spread. "The outbreak has the potential to cause severe economic and market dislocation. But the scale of the impact will ultimately be determined by how the virus spreads and evolves, which is almost impossible to predict, as well as how governments respond," said Neil Shearing, group chief economist at Capital Economics. Compounding the risk is the fact that the world outside China has also changed since 2003. Globalization has encouraged companies to build supply chains that cut across national borders, making economies much more interconnected. The major central banks have used up much of the ammunition they would typically deploy to fight economic downturns since the 2008 financial crisis, and global debt levels have never been higher. Rising nationalism may make it harder to coordinate a worldwide response, if that's required. The virus is snarling supply chains and disrupting companies.Car plants across China have been ordered to remain closed following the Lunar New Year holiday, preventing global automakers Volkswagen (VLKAF), Toyota (TM), Daimler (DDAIF), General Motors (GM), Renault (RNLSY), Honda (HMC) and Hyundai (HYMTF) from resuming operations in the world's largest car market. According to S&P Global Ratings, the outbreak will force carmakers in China to slash production by about 15% in the first quarter. Toyota said on Friday it would keep its factories shut at least until February 17.Luxury goods makers, which rely on Chinese consumers who spend big at home and while on vacation, have also been hit. British brand Burberry (BBRYF) has closed 24 of its 64 stores in mainland China, and its chief executive warned Friday that the virus is causing a "material negative effect on luxury demand." Dozens of global airlines have curtailed flights to and from China.Even more troubling is the threat to global supply chains. Qualcomm (QCOM), the world's biggest maker of smartphone chips, warned that the outbreak was causing "significant" uncertainty around demand for smartphones, and the supplies needed to produce them. Already, auto parts shortages have forced Hyundai (HYMTF) to close plants in South Korea and caused Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) to make contingency plans to avoid the same result at one of its plants in Europe.Economists say the current level of disruption is manageable. If the number of new coronavirus cases begins to slow, and China's factories reopen soon, the result will be a fleeting hit to the Chinese economy in the first quarter and a dent in global growth. If the virus continues to spread, however, the economic damage will increase rapidly. Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic adviser to Allianz (ALIZF), told CNN Business that he was most worried about the potential cascading economic effects."They first paralyze the region of the virus outbreak," he said. "Then they gradually spread domestically, undermining internal trade, consumption, production and the movement of people. If the virus is still not contained, the process spreads further, including regionally and internationally by disrupting trade, supply chains and travel."Epidemic riskEconomists have a hard time working out the potential costs of epidemics because of their unique characteristics. Yet diseases can be far more damaging than natural disasters such as hurricanes or a tsunami, or other unpredictable events known as "black swans." According to a study by the World Bank, a severe pandemic could cause economic losses equal to nearly 5% of global GDP, or more than $3 trillion. Losses from a weaker flu pandemic, such as the 2009 H1N1 virus, can still wipe 0.5% off global GDP. "A severe pandemic would resemble a global war in its sudden, profound, and widespread impact," the World Bank assessed in a report on pandemics from 2013. (The Wuhan coronavirus has not been declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization.)The virus is not the driving factor behind those losses, however. Instead, it's the way consumers, businesses and governments respond to an outbreak that matters most.People are more likely to stay home during an outbreak to avoid getting sick, preventing them from traveling, shopping and working. Doing so limits demand for consumer goods and energy. Decisions by companies and governments to close shops and idle factories, meanwhile, curtail production. "This is continuing to grow in scope and magnitude. It could end being really, really big, and really, really serious. We can't project that now," said William Reinsch, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who spent 15 years as president of the National Foreign Trade Council.According to Shearing, past epidemics show that China's economy is likely to take a significant hit in the first quarter. But that will quickly fade from memory if the virus is contained."As long as factory closures don't lead to job losses, by this time next year the level of GDP is unlikely to be very different from what it would have been without the virus," he said.What can be done?China's government has moved quickly to counter the economic fallout from the coronavirus and the measures taken to contain it. The People's Bank of China cut a key interest rate this week and injected huge amounts of cash into markets in order to help take the pressure off banks and borrowers. Officials have also announced new tax breaks and subsidies designed to help consumers. Yet China is also more vulnerable to a crisis than it was 17 years ago when SARS broke out."It has much higher debt, trade tensions with a major trading partner and its growth has been steadily slowing down for a number of years, which gives a weak starting point to face such a crisis," said Raphie Hayat, a senior economist at Dutch bank Rabobank.Analysts at Capital Economics expect the government to announce additional measures in the coming days. If the virus keeps spreading, they believe that Beijing will have to abandon its long-running efforts to get its debt under control and pump money directly into the economy.Central banks in neighboring countries including Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines have cut interest rates in recent weeks. South Korea and Taiwan could be next.But the big powers of the financial world are exhausted from a decade fighting anemic growth since the global financial crisis. The European Central Bank introduced negative interest rates in 2014 and hasn't been able to increase them since, while the Bank of Japan is in a similar position. The US Federal Reserve already cut interest rates three times last year; Chair Jerome Powell has said he's carefully monitoring the situation.Meanwhile, debt levels have soared in the United States, Japan and key European countries including Italy, limiting the scope for a big fiscal stimulus if the world economy goes into another tailspin. Global debt, including borrowing by households, governments and companies, has jumped to more than three times the size of the global economy, the highest ratio on record, according to the Institute of International Finance. Also critical is whether governments are able to coordinate their response to the outbreak, ideally with help from multinational institutions. This is especially true because, according to the World Bank, preparedness for a potential pandemic is low. But coordination may prove difficult in a increasingly fractured world where nationalism is often prized over cooperation."It's quite clear that multinational institutions are under more pressure, and have less teeth on day to day issues than 10 years ago," Shearing said. "But the optimist in me would like to think that in the face of a global pandemic, global institutions are still in a position to respond."Correction: An earlier version of this story misidentified Raphie Hayat's employer.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-06T17:35:31Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/06/business/oil-prices-coronavirus-opec-russia/index.html
author: Matt Egan, CNN Business
headline: Oil is in a tailspin over the coronavirus and OPEC might not be coming to the rescue  - CNN
description : The rapidly-spreading coronavirus in China poses the biggest demand threat to the oil market since the 2008 financial crisis. Yet OPEC and Russia can't agree on whether to come to the rescue. 
keywords : business, Oil is in a tailspin over the coronavirus and OPEC might not be coming to the rescue  - CNN
content: Saudi Arabia, seeking to cushion the blow from the coronavirus, proposed further production cuts during three days of meetings in Vienna this week. But Russia is pushing back -- even though fears about the coronavirus have sent oil prices crashing into yet another bear market. The Russians said "they need more time" to weigh recommendations from the group's technical committee and assess the impact of the coronavirus on the market, a source close to the negotiations told CNN Business' John Defterios. The coronavirus has clobbered oil prices because it is destroying demand in China, the world's largest oil importer and the epicenter of global oil demand growth. The crisis has killed more than 560 people, infected over 28,000 and brought large parts of the world's second-largest economy to a standstill.  The compromise proposal from Saudi Arabia was to cut oil production by 600,000 barrels per day, down from 800,000 to 1 million barrels, a senior OPEC source confirmed to CNN. The apparent conflict between OPEC and Russia dashes hopes that the group will be able to arrest the sharp decline in prices. "The coronavirus has completely taken the oil market hostage," said Michael Tran, director of global energy strategy at RBC Capital Markets. "The market is watching what OPEC does with bated breath. If OPEC is not able to stick the landing, it will have a big psychological hit to the market." US oil prices retreated to around $50.70 a barrel on the news. Crude had climbed as high as $52.20 on Thursday on hopes of a strong OPEC response. S&P Global Platts Analytics said earlier this week it was reasonable to expect a 1 million barrel per day production cut by OPEC.  Earlier this week, oil plunged into a bear market, signifying a 20% decline from previous highs. Crude closed at a 13-month low of $49.61 on Tuesday.  Oil demand in 'free fall'Unlike recent oil tailspins, this one has been triggered by demand destruction, not excess supply. And demand shocks can be more challenging to stop because of the uncertainty involved. "What we're facing now is a different beast. Demand is just in free fall," said Tran.  In a best-case scenario, oil demand will tumble by 1.5 million barrels per day in February, according to Platts. The worst-case scenario by the firm calls for demand to plunge by 4 million barrels per day.  Most concerning for oil bulls, the appetite for jet fuel has cratered because major airlines including American Airlines (AAL), Delta Air Lines (DAL) and British Airways have suspended all flights to and from mainland China.  Daily flight cancellations are approaching nearly 3,000, according to RBC, which is using artificial intelligence to track real-time flight patterns. China's Sinopec has slashed its overall crude throughput by about 13% and its refineries are operating in China at minimum run rates, according to Platts.  "This is, in our opinion, the most acute threat to global demand since the financial crisis of 2008," said Tran.  Will Saudi Arabia act alone?Demand for oil has been relatively resilient in the years since the Great Recession, boosted by the rapid economic growth in China and India. Previous demand shocks include the Sept. 11 terror attacks and the SARS infection of 2003. It's unclear what OPEC will do next.  Under new Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud, the kingdom has signaled it would prefer not to act alone anymore. Saudi Arabia would prefer that other major oil players, including Russia, help shoulder the burden of production cuts.  OPEC must now decide if wishes to act alone, without the support of Russia. Such a move could jeopardize the OPEC+ alliance that has worked well in recent years to put a floor beneath weak oil prices.  
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-05T14:58:10Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/05/business/china-flights-travel-coronavirus-outbreak/index.html
author: Michelle Toh and Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: China flights: How airlines are reacting to coronavirus - CNN
description : Airlines around the world have responded to the coronavirus outbreak by suspending flights to and from China, severely disrupting travel by tourists and business executives in one of the world's busiest aviation markets. 
keywords : business, China flights: How airlines are reacting to coronavirus - CNN
content: Here's a roundup of some major airlines that have suspended or reduced their flights to mainland China:North AmericaAmerican Airlines - Flights between Dallas and Los Angeles and mainland China, and between Los Angeles and Hong Kong suspended through April 24; Dallas-Hong Kong routes suspended through April 23 United Airlines - Suspended until April 24Delta - Suspended until April 30Air Canada - Suspended until February 29Asia and OceaniaAir Asia - Some flights suspended until February 29 All Nippon - Some flights suspended until March 29Cathay Pacific and Cathay Dragon - 90% reduction in flights Japan Airlines - Some flights suspended until March 28Korean Air - Some flights suspended until the end of MarchSingapore Airlines and SilkAir - Some flights suspended until March 1Qantas - Suspended until March 29Air New Zealand - Suspended until March 29Europe and the Middle EastAir France - Beijing and Shanghai flights suspended through March 15; Wuhan flights resume March 29British Airways - Suspended until February 29Virgin Atlantic - London-Shanghai flights suspended until March 28Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines - Beijing and Shanghai flights suspended until February 29; other routes until March 28Turkish Airlines - Suspended until the end of FebruaryEtihad - Some flights suspended from February 5; service continues to BeijingEmirates - Some flights suspended from February 5; service continues to BeijingQatar Airways - Suspended until further noticeFinnair - Beijing and Shanghai flights suspended until February 29; other routes to March 29KLM - Beijing and Shanghai flights suspended through March 15; other routes through March 28 Iberia - Suspended until February 29
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-07T12:12:17Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/07/business/cruise-coronavirus-screenings/index.html
author: Daniela Sirtori-Cortina, CNN Business
headline: Going on a cruise? Here's how the coronavirus will change your trip - CNN
description : Cruise companies are taking extraordinary measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus, from taking passengers' temperature to banning people who've recently been to China.
keywords : business, Going on a cruise? Here's how the coronavirus will change your trip - CNN
content: Spooked by the deadly disease, cruise companies around the world are imposing extraordinary measures to curb its spread, from taking passengers' temperature before boarding to denying entry to people who've recently visited China. Those fears were on full display in the past two weeks, with at least three cruises being quarantined after some passengers showed symptoms.As of Friday morning, the coronavirus had killed 638 people, mostly in China. There were 31,479 confirmed cases around the world, with over 31,100 in China alone. More than 30 million people are expected to take a cruise this year, according to Cruise Lines International Association. If you're one of them, here's what you can expect.You'll be turned away if you've been to China recentlyMiami-based Royal Caribbean (RCL) is turning away passengers and crew members who've been to mainland China, Hong Kong or Macau in the 15 days before their trip, according to a statement on the firm's website.Swiss company MSC Cruises is denying boarding to passengers who've been to mainland China in the past 30 days, according to a February 4 statement on its website. All guests have to fill out a questionnaire before boarding.Carnival Corporation (CCL) took similar steps, banning passengers who've been to China, Hong Kong or Macau in the previous 14 days. Meanwhile, Norwegian Cruise Lines barred guests and crew who've been to China, Hong Kong and Macau 30 days before their cruise trip, a spokesperson said Wednesday. The cruiseliner will refund passengers who show proof of travel.Health screeningsRoyal Caribbean is performing undefined "extra screenings" of anyone with a Chinese, Hong Kong or Macau passport regardless of when they last visited those regions. People who've come in contact with someone who has been to those areas in the past 15 days, as well as anyone with flu-like symptoms, will also be subject to the tighter checks.MSC Cruises is checking everyone's temperature prior to boarding. Anyone that displays symptoms — including a fever, chills, a cough or difficulty breathing — can't get on.Norwegian is also screening all passengers and doing extra checks on people who appear to be sick. Anyone with symptoms of a respiratory illness might be quarantined and potentially disembarked, the spokesperson added.You might be quarantinedLast week, 7,000 passengers on a Carnival-owned Costa Cruises ship were held aboard in Italy after a passenger showed symptoms. On Wednesday, a cruise from the company's Diamond Princess line was anchored near Tokyo with 1,045 crew and 2,666 passengers for the same reason, and on Friday it was confirmed that 11 Americans aboard had tested positive for the coronavirus.You can't go to ChinaRoyal Caribbean canceled eight China sailings through March 4 on its Spectrum of the Seas ship, the cruiseliner's only vessel homeported in the country, a spokesperson said Wednesday. The company will give passengers full refunds.Norwegian has changed some itineraries and isn't sailing to mainland China. Trips stopping in the country over the next six months are under review.A Carnival spokesperson said the company canceled trips out of China on its Costa line through February, and it called off the next sailing of the Diamond Princess, which according to its website sails to and from Hong Kong.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-06T14:17:08Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/06/business/global-autos-coronavirus-china/index.html
author: Analysis by Jill Disis and Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Global auto industry braced for China coronavirus shock  - CNN
description : For decades, China was the promised land for American, European and Japanese carmakers. Now, the coronavirus outbreak threatens to prolong a slump in vehicle sales, derail production in the country and snarl global auto supply chains. 
keywords : business, Global auto industry braced for China coronavirus shock  - CNN
content: Volkswagen (VLKAF), Toyota (TM), Daimler (DDAIF), General Motors (GM), Renault (RNLSY), Honda (HMC) and Hyundai (HYMTF) are among the global carmakers who have invested heavily in China, forming partnerships with local companies and building vast factories. China makes more cars than any other country, and is also the world's biggest market. When car plants across China shut last month for the Lunar New Year holiday, the industry was already under huge pressure: sales had been falling for two years due to the loss of tax incentives for electric cars and the slowing economy, and officials were expecting an unprecedented third year of stagnation. Many of those plants have since been ordered to remain shut at least until next week as the Chinese government scrambles to contain the virus that first appeared in Wuhan, a major autos hub, before sweeping across the country, infecting thousands of people and killing hundreds. Automakers are bracing for even longer shutdowns and a deeper recession in global sales.Sales and production to sufferClose to 60 million people are still living under lockdown in China, with three cities reporting over a thousand confirmed coronavirus cases each. Meanwhile, the virus continues to spread, keeping huge numbers of potential shoppers at home until the outbreak peaks."We assume consumers will tend to avoid purchasing cars in dealer shops until then to reduce contagion risk," analysts at S&P Global Ratings said in a report published Wednesday.The extended factory closures are expected to make it much more difficult for the industry to emerge from its recession. According to S&P Global Ratings, the outbreak will force carmakers in China to slash production by about 15% in the first quarter.The auto industry is particularly exposed because the virus originated in one of China's "motor cities." General Motors, Nissan (NSANF), Renault, Honda and Peugeot owner PSA Group (PUGOY) all have large factories in Wuhan, which has been on lockdown since late January. Wuhan and the rest of Hubei province account for 9% of total Chinese auto production, according to S&P Global Ratings. PSA Group told CNN Business this week that its Wuhan plant would remain closed until at least February 14, though a spokesperson added that its European operations have not yet been affected by any parts or logistical disruptions.Other carmakers are also trying to assess the fallout from the outbreak and keep it to a minimum."It's a very fluid situation," GM CEO Mary Barra told investors Wednesday during an earnings presentation. She said the company is working with its Chinese partners and local health authorities to make sure the supply chain is not disrupted. Germany's Daimler and Volkswagen have said they expect to resume some vehicle production in China on Monday, though both firms added that they continue to monitor the situation and will adjust plans as needed. Volkswagen is most exposed to potential damage. The world's largest automaker has 24 plants making cars or parts in China, accounting for 40% of its production. On Wednesday, Volkswagen said that its supply chain "is on track to be fully functional in time for the start of production," and that planned deliveries to customers haven't changed.Toyota, which makes 15% of its cars in China but is less exposed than Japanese rival Honda, is also worried. The world's second biggest carmaker had been hoping to restart production on February 10, but it has been forced to keep its 12 joint venture plants in China — four making cars and eight making parts or components — closed for another week at least. "The situation varies depending on the plant and its supply of parts. Also, there are additional considerations that must be given to the guidelines from local and region governments, including things like logistics, so we cannot definitively say whether we will restart plant operations from February 17," a Toyota spokesperson said.The situation could get worse before it gets better. S&P Global Ratings researchers said the Chinese government could extend factory shutdowns in order to limit contagion risk, affecting as much as half of China's car and auto parts production. Car plants in cities such as Shanghai and Tianjin — many hundreds of miles away from Wuhan — could be out of commission for an "extended" period, they warned.The risks beyond ChinaThe longer the crisis drags on, the greater the chance that global auto supply chains will be damaged.German engineering firm Bosch, which is the world's largest auto component manufacturer, has dozens of plants in China including two in Wuhan. Other parts suppliers including Schaeffler, ZF Friedrichshafen, Faurecia and Valeo have significant operations in the country, according to S&P Global Ratings. A spokesperson for Bosch said Thursday that its plants in China remain closed on government orders, but production is expected to resume at many locations "within the next few days." The spokesperson said it was still too early to assess the impact to the company.China is also the global manufacturing base for electric motors, transmissions, and other components for electric cars. Tesla (TSLA), which sources parts from multiple companies in China, has already said that production will be delayed at its new factory in Shanghai.Crunch time has arrived for one major carmaker. Hyundai (HYMTF) suspended production this week at its plants in South Korea because the coronavirus disrupted its supply of parts.Korea's car sector sources 29% of its parts from China, according to Simon MacAdam, global economist at Capital Economics. He said that Hyundai's decision underscores how valuable China is to major manufacturing supply chains around the world."Even industries that appear to have low exposure to Chinese suppliers will almost certainly contain firms that are heavily reliant on inputs from China," MacAdam wrote Wednesday in a research note. "It only takes bottlenecks in the production of one low-value, but crucial, component to bring higher-value, downstream production to a halt.— Laura He, Sherisse Pham, Chris Isidore and Enjoji Kaori contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-06T14:17:08Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/06/business/global-autos-coronavirus-china/index.html
author: Analysis by Jill Disis and Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Global auto industry braced for China coronavirus shock  - CNN
description : For decades, China was the promised land for American, European and Japanese carmakers. Now, the coronavirus outbreak threatens to prolong a slump in vehicle sales, derail production in the country and snarl global auto supply chains. 
keywords : business, Global auto industry braced for China coronavirus shock  - CNN
content: Volkswagen (VLKAF), Toyota (TM), Daimler (DDAIF), General Motors (GM), Renault (RNLSY), Honda (HMC) and Hyundai (HYMTF) are among the global carmakers who have invested heavily in China, forming partnerships with local companies and building vast factories. China makes more cars than any other country, and is also the world's biggest market. When car plants across China shut last month for the Lunar New Year holiday, the industry was already under huge pressure: sales had been falling for two years due to the loss of tax incentives for electric cars and the slowing economy, and officials were expecting an unprecedented third year of stagnation. Many of those plants have since been ordered to remain shut at least until next week as the Chinese government scrambles to contain the virus that first appeared in Wuhan, a major autos hub, before sweeping across the country, infecting thousands of people and killing hundreds. Automakers are bracing for even longer shutdowns and a deeper recession in global sales.Sales and production to sufferClose to 60 million people are still living under lockdown in China, with three cities reporting over a thousand confirmed coronavirus cases each. Meanwhile, the virus continues to spread, keeping huge numbers of potential shoppers at home until the outbreak peaks."We assume consumers will tend to avoid purchasing cars in dealer shops until then to reduce contagion risk," analysts at S&P Global Ratings said in a report published Wednesday.The extended factory closures are expected to make it much more difficult for the industry to emerge from its recession. According to S&P Global Ratings, the outbreak will force carmakers in China to slash production by about 15% in the first quarter.The auto industry is particularly exposed because the virus originated in one of China's "motor cities." General Motors, Nissan (NSANF), Renault, Honda and Peugeot owner PSA Group (PUGOY) all have large factories in Wuhan, which has been on lockdown since late January. Wuhan and the rest of Hubei province account for 9% of total Chinese auto production, according to S&P Global Ratings. PSA Group told CNN Business this week that its Wuhan plant would remain closed until at least February 14, though a spokesperson added that its European operations have not yet been affected by any parts or logistical disruptions.Other carmakers are also trying to assess the fallout from the outbreak and keep it to a minimum."It's a very fluid situation," GM CEO Mary Barra told investors Wednesday during an earnings presentation. She said the company is working with its Chinese partners and local health authorities to make sure the supply chain is not disrupted. Germany's Daimler and Volkswagen have said they expect to resume some vehicle production in China on Monday, though both firms added that they continue to monitor the situation and will adjust plans as needed. Volkswagen is most exposed to potential damage. The world's largest automaker has 24 plants making cars or parts in China, accounting for 40% of its production. On Wednesday, Volkswagen said that its supply chain "is on track to be fully functional in time for the start of production," and that planned deliveries to customers haven't changed.Toyota, which makes 15% of its cars in China but is less exposed than Japanese rival Honda, is also worried. The world's second biggest carmaker had been hoping to restart production on February 10, but it has been forced to keep its 12 joint venture plants in China — four making cars and eight making parts or components — closed for another week at least. "The situation varies depending on the plant and its supply of parts. Also, there are additional considerations that must be given to the guidelines from local and region governments, including things like logistics, so we cannot definitively say whether we will restart plant operations from February 17," a Toyota spokesperson said.The situation could get worse before it gets better. S&P Global Ratings researchers said the Chinese government could extend factory shutdowns in order to limit contagion risk, affecting as much as half of China's car and auto parts production. Car plants in cities such as Shanghai and Tianjin — many hundreds of miles away from Wuhan — could be out of commission for an "extended" period, they warned.The risks beyond ChinaThe longer the crisis drags on, the greater the chance that global auto supply chains will be damaged.German engineering firm Bosch, which is the world's largest auto component manufacturer, has dozens of plants in China including two in Wuhan. Other parts suppliers including Schaeffler, ZF Friedrichshafen, Faurecia and Valeo have significant operations in the country, according to S&P Global Ratings. A spokesperson for Bosch said Thursday that its plants in China remain closed on government orders, but production is expected to resume at many locations "within the next few days." The spokesperson said it was still too early to assess the impact to the company.China is also the global manufacturing base for electric motors, transmissions, and other components for electric cars. Tesla (TSLA), which sources parts from multiple companies in China, has already said that production will be delayed at its new factory in Shanghai.Crunch time has arrived for one major carmaker. Hyundai (HYMTF) suspended production this week at its plants in South Korea because the coronavirus disrupted its supply of parts.Korea's car sector sources 29% of its parts from China, according to Simon MacAdam, global economist at Capital Economics. He said that Hyundai's decision underscores how valuable China is to major manufacturing supply chains around the world."Even industries that appear to have low exposure to Chinese suppliers will almost certainly contain firms that are heavily reliant on inputs from China," MacAdam wrote Wednesday in a research note. "It only takes bottlenecks in the production of one low-value, but crucial, component to bring higher-value, downstream production to a halt.— Laura He, Sherisse Pham, Chris Isidore and Enjoji Kaori contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-07T05:50:33Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/07/business/toyota-factory-coronavirus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Toyota won't reopen China plants for at least another week amid coronavirus outbreak - CNN
description : Japanese carmaker Toyota is keeping its China plants closed for at least another week as the coronavirus outbreak continues to spread. 
keywords : business, Toyota won't reopen China plants for at least another week amid coronavirus outbreak - CNN
content: The coronavirus has killed more than 630 people, mostly in China. Globally, it has infected over 31,400 people across 25 countries and territories.Toyota, the world's second largest carmaker, had been weighing whether to resume operations on February 10 as recently as Thursday. Car plants across China have been closed since late last month for an extended Lunar New Year holiday as authorities try to contain the virus.But on Friday, a Toyota spokesperson told CNN Business that the company is preparing for "normal operation" to resume no earlier than February 17, and warned that there could be more delays."The situation varies depending on the plant and its supply of parts. Also, there are additional considerations that must be given to the guidelines from local and region governments, including things like logistics, so we cannot definitively say whether we will restart plant operations from February 17," the spokesperson said.  The closure affects 12 plants — four car manufacturing plants and eight parts or component plants — that Toyota operates in mainland China with joint venture partners FAW Group and GAC Motor. The global auto industry is heavily reliant on China, which makes more cars than any other country, and is also the world's biggest market. Toyota, which makes 15% of its cars in China, is less exposed than other companies that have a larger presence in the country. But its executives have still expressed concern in recent days about the impact of the coronavirus. Geely (GELYF), parent company of Swedish car maker Volvo (VOLAF), also on Friday indicated that some of its plants will re-open after February 10. "Geely factories [will] begin to start work on the 10th in a staggered phase," a company spokesman told CNN Business. Geely Auto Group has 19 production plants across China, according to its website.  
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-10T12:34:18Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/10/business/china-companies-return-to-work-coronavirus/index.html
author: Michelle Toh, CNN Business
headline: Chinese companies were supposed to return to work today. But the coronavirus is still a problem - CNN
description : China is slowly getting back to work after the deadly coronavirus outbreak forced many parts of the country to extend the Lunar New Year holiday by more than a week. But it's still far from business as usual in the world's second-largest economy.
keywords : business, Chinese companies were supposed to return to work today. But the coronavirus is still a problem - CNN
content: Officials have issued varied guidance on what companies should be doing as the public holiday comes to an end for much of China and millions return to their place of work. Many districts are asking companies to check the temperature of workers who come to the office. Other instructions are more specific, including one from a district in Shenzhen that asks businesses with lots of migrant workers to set up quarantine areas for employees returning from "infected zones." That's created a patchwork approach to working during the public health crisis.The coronavirus has killed more than 900 people and infected at least 40,000, mostly in mainland China. The majority of the cases are in the central Chinese province of Hubei, where life remains mostly at a standstill. Elsewhere in China, though, some big companies are trying to return to work — albeit with serious precautions. Others remain shut down. Huawei, the country's top smartphone maker, on Monday reopened its Shenzhen headquarters where it employs about 40,000 people, according to a person familiar with the matter. The person said its decision was in line with local guidelines that authorized businesses to reopen.But Huawei employees returned to a dramatically different environment than the one they left in January. When they clock in each morning, workers must now provide details about their body temperature and whereabouts for the last two weeks, the person said. There will also be temperature checks at office buildings and parking lots, while face masks and hand sanitizers are being dispensed all over campus.Tencent and Alibaba workers stay home Tencent (TCEHY), which is also based in Shenzhen, said its staff in mainland China were working from home on Monday, and will continue to do so for at least the next two weeks. In Hong Kong, where there are at least 38 confirmed cases, the company's office is tentatively set to reopen next week. "The health and safety of our employees is of the utmost importance to us," a company spokesperson told CNN Business. "Accordingly, Tencent will continue to monitor the situation closely and will revise these arrangements as necessary."Many others took a similar approach. Microsoft's (MSFT) team in mainland China will stay home for at least another week while its Hong Kong office continues to operate as usual, a spokesperson said.Chinese ride-hailing provider Didi and Audi's China team are also extending their remote working practices through Friday. And e-commerce giant Alibaba (BABA) has asked employees to work from home for another week, according to a person familiar with the matter.Drone-maker DJI is asking employees to work from home until further notice, according to a person familiar with the matter.Other companies are allowing their workers to return to the office, but under strict conditions.Baidu (BIDU), China's top search engine provider, said that it was "gradually" reopening its offices on Monday. But employees who come in "must meet quarantine conditions, and they can only return to work in the campus after approval," the company said in an internal memo seen by CNN Business.Dane Anderson, vice president and regional manager of Asia Pacific at Forrester Research, said the confusion among companies about how to manage the outbreak was predictable, given a lack of preparation. "Most organizations focus their business continuity plans on losses, such as the loss of facilities, technology or people, but not on impact-based scenarios such as the current novel coronavirus," he told CNN Business. "Unfortunately, most organizations will be learning on the go, which will lead to more confusion along the way."Toyota and GM factories remain shutAutomakers have also been wrestling with when to allow employees to work again. Toyota (TM), for example, had been weighing whether to reopen its China plants Monday, but recently extended those closures another week. Volkswagen (VLKAF), which said last week that it expected to resume some vehicle production Monday, did not respond to a request for comment. General Motors (GM) said Monday it would resume production in China from February 15, staggering the restart over a two-week period based on factors such as employee safety, supply chain readiness and product inventory needs.   The Chinese government may soon provide some more clarity for businesses. China's State Council said Monday that it plans to hold a press conference Tuesday to discuss how China is helping companies resume production.— Laura He and Chris Isidore contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-08T05:16:03Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/08/business/coronavirus-global-economy/index.html
author: Analysis by Charles Riley and Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: The coronavirus is already hurting the world economy. Here's why it could get really scary - CNN
description : Nearly two decades have passed since a coronavirus known as SARS emerged in China, killing hundreds of people and sparking panic that sent a chill through the global economy. The virus now rampaging across China could be much more damaging. 
keywords : business, The coronavirus is already hurting the world economy. Here's why it could get really scary - CNN
content: China has become an indispensable part of global business since the 2003 SARS outbreak. It's grown into the world's factory, churning out products such as the iPhone and driving demand for commodities like oil and copper. The country also boasts hundreds of millions of wealthy consumers who spend big on luxury products, tourism and cars. China's economy accounted for roughly 4% of world GDP in 2003; it now makes up 16% of global output.SARS sickened 8,098 people and killed 774 before it was contained. The new coronavirus, which originated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, has already killed more than 900 people and infected over 40,000 across at least 25 countries and territories. Chinese officials have locked down Wuhan and several other cities, but the virus continues to spread. "The outbreak has the potential to cause severe economic and market dislocation. But the scale of the impact will ultimately be determined by how the virus spreads and evolves, which is almost impossible to predict, as well as how governments respond," said Neil Shearing, group chief economist at Capital Economics. Compounding the risk is the fact that the world outside China has also changed since 2003. Globalization has encouraged companies to build supply chains that cut across national borders, making economies much more interconnected. The major central banks have used up much of the ammunition they would typically deploy to fight economic downturns since the 2008 financial crisis, and global debt levels have never been higher. Rising nationalism may make it harder to coordinate a worldwide response, if that's required. The virus is snarling supply chains and disrupting companies.Car plants across China have been ordered to remain closed following the Lunar New Year holiday, preventing global automakers Volkswagen (VLKAF), Toyota (TM), Daimler (DDAIF), General Motors (GM), Renault (RNLSY), Honda (HMC) and Hyundai (HYMTF) from resuming operations in the world's largest car market. According to S&P Global Ratings, the outbreak will force carmakers in China to slash production by about 15% in the first quarter. Toyota said on Friday it would keep its factories shut at least until February 17.Luxury goods makers, which rely on Chinese consumers who spend big at home and while on vacation, have also been hit. British brand Burberry (BBRYF) has closed 24 of its 64 stores in mainland China, and its chief executive warned Friday that the virus is causing a "material negative effect on luxury demand." Dozens of global airlines have curtailed flights to and from China.Even more troubling is the threat to global supply chains. Qualcomm (QCOM), the world's biggest maker of smartphone chips, warned that the outbreak was causing "significant" uncertainty around demand for smartphones, and the supplies needed to produce them. Already, auto parts shortages have forced Hyundai (HYMTF) to close plants in South Korea and caused Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) to make contingency plans to avoid the same result at one of its plants in Europe.Economists say the current level of disruption is manageable. If the number of new coronavirus cases begins to slow, and China's factories reopen soon, the result will be a fleeting hit to the Chinese economy in the first quarter and a dent in global growth. If the virus continues to spread, however, the economic damage will increase rapidly. Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic adviser to Allianz (ALIZF), told CNN Business that he was most worried about the potential cascading economic effects."They first paralyze the region of the virus outbreak," he said. "Then they gradually spread domestically, undermining internal trade, consumption, production and the movement of people. If the virus is still not contained, the process spreads further, including regionally and internationally by disrupting trade, supply chains and travel."Epidemic riskEconomists have a hard time working out the potential costs of epidemics because of their unique characteristics. Yet diseases can be far more damaging than natural disasters such as hurricanes or a tsunami, or other unpredictable events known as "black swans." According to a study by the World Bank, a severe pandemic could cause economic losses equal to nearly 5% of global GDP, or more than $3 trillion. Losses from a weaker flu pandemic, such as the 2009 H1N1 virus, can still wipe 0.5% off global GDP. "A severe pandemic would resemble a global war in its sudden, profound, and widespread impact," the World Bank assessed in a report on pandemics from 2013. (The Wuhan coronavirus has not been declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization.)The virus is not the driving factor behind those losses, however. Instead, it's the way consumers, businesses and governments respond to an outbreak that matters most.People are more likely to stay home during an outbreak to avoid getting sick, preventing them from traveling, shopping and working. Doing so limits demand for consumer goods and energy. Decisions by companies and governments to close shops and idle factories, meanwhile, curtail production. "This is continuing to grow in scope and magnitude. It could end being really, really big, and really, really serious. We can't project that now," said William Reinsch, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who spent 15 years as president of the National Foreign Trade Council.According to Shearing, past epidemics show that China's economy is likely to take a significant hit in the first quarter. But that will quickly fade from memory if the virus is contained."As long as factory closures don't lead to job losses, by this time next year the level of GDP is unlikely to be very different from what it would have been without the virus," he said.What can be done?China's government has moved quickly to counter the economic fallout from the coronavirus and the measures taken to contain it. The People's Bank of China cut a key interest rate this week and injected huge amounts of cash into markets in order to help take the pressure off banks and borrowers. Officials have also announced new tax breaks and subsidies designed to help consumers. Yet China is also more vulnerable to a crisis than it was 17 years ago when SARS broke out."It has much higher debt, trade tensions with a major trading partner and its growth has been steadily slowing down for a number of years, which gives a weak starting point to face such a crisis," said Raphie Hayat, a senior economist at Dutch bank Rabobank.Analysts at Capital Economics expect the government to announce additional measures in the coming days. If the virus keeps spreading, they believe that Beijing will have to abandon its long-running efforts to get its debt under control and pump money directly into the economy.Central banks in neighboring countries including Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines have cut interest rates in recent weeks. South Korea and Taiwan could be next.But the big powers of the financial world are exhausted from a decade fighting anemic growth since the global financial crisis. The European Central Bank introduced negative interest rates in 2014 and hasn't been able to increase them since, while the Bank of Japan is in a similar position. The US Federal Reserve already cut interest rates three times last year; Chair Jerome Powell has said he's carefully monitoring the situation.Meanwhile, debt levels have soared in the United States, Japan and key European countries including Italy, limiting the scope for a big fiscal stimulus if the world economy goes into another tailspin. Global debt, including borrowing by households, governments and companies, has jumped to more than three times the size of the global economy, the highest ratio on record, according to the Institute of International Finance. Also critical is whether governments are able to coordinate their response to the outbreak, ideally with help from multinational institutions. This is especially true because, according to the World Bank, preparedness for a potential pandemic is low. But coordination may prove difficult in a increasingly fractured world where nationalism is often prized over cooperation."It's quite clear that multinational institutions are under more pressure, and have less teeth on day to day issues than 10 years ago," Shearing said. "But the optimist in me would like to think that in the face of a global pandemic, global institutions are still in a position to respond."Correction: An earlier version of this story misidentified Raphie Hayat's employer.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-24T17:27:28Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/24/business/coronavirus-global-economy/index.html
author: Analysis by Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Economic pandemic: Coronavirus slams South Korea, Italy - CNN
description : The emergence of hundreds of coronavirus cases in two major economies outside China has dashed hopes of a speedy recovery from an epidemic that has already wreaked havoc on global supply chains and hit company profits.
keywords : business, Economic pandemic: Coronavirus slams South Korea, Italy - CNN
content: The number of infections in South Korea, a major producer of cars, electronics and machinery, has shot up to more than 890. Italy, which started the weekend with a handful of cases, now has over 270 and seven confirmed deaths. Officials have shut down public buildings, schools and sports events in some parts of the country's industrial north.With Japan already reporting hundreds of infections, four of the world's top 12 economies — representing about 27% of global GDP — are now scrambling to contain the virus. A fifth — Germany — is teetering on the brink of recession. The spike in cases outside China signals a new phase in the battle against coronavirus, greater risk for companies and their workers, and global economic growth. Officials and business leaders had been hoping that dramatic action taken by China would slow the spread of coronavirus and prevent it from gaining traction around the world. If China's factories were able to restart production quickly after an extended shutdown, the world's second largest economy would have a chance to return to normal in the second quarter. Under that scenario, global growth this year would only be 0.1 percentage points weaker than expected, Kristalina Georgieva, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said over the weekend. The IMF boss cautioned, however, that she was also looking at "more dire scenarios" where the outbreak turns out to be "more persistent and widespread."Economic damageStock markets, which had so far largely brushed off the threat from coronavirus, are now reflecting the growing risk of a much bigger hit to the global economy. The sharp increase in infections in Italy and South Korea, the world's eighth and twelfth largest economies, produced a sharp reaction from investors. South Korea's benchmark share index closed down nearly 3.9% on Monday, its worst day since October 2018. In Italy, the main market index closed down more than 5%. The Dow lost 1,031 points, or 3.6%, its worst day in two years.Reduced demand for goods and services, and factory closures in China, were already expected to slam Chinese growth in the first quarter, weigh on trade and slow global growth. But the spread of the virus increases the risk of substantial damage to economies that were growing at a much slower place than China — or, as in the cases of Germany, Italy and Japan, already at risk of recession."When the virus was limited to China and other nearby countries, it was viewed as an economic issue for Asia," said Kevin Giddis, chief fixed income strategist at Raymond James. "The spread of the virus into Italy now makes this a European issue and possibly a global issue that could upset the supply chain for months or years to come."Italy's economy contracted by 0.3% in the final three months of 2019, compared to the previous quarter, and some economists were expecting the country to fall into recession early this year before the coronavirus outbreak escalated. The bulk of cases in Italy are in the northern region of Lombardy, whose capital is the financial center of Milan. Turin, which is home to Fiat Chrysler (FCAU), is located to the west of Milan, while other carmakers including Ferrari are situated to its southeast. Milan is also home to many luxury goods makers, and the city just hosted its annual fashion week. Officials have yet to track down the first carrier of the virus in Italy. Restrictions designed to stop the spread of coronavirus in the country affect about 100,000 people.The coronavirus is also hiking the risk of recession in other countries. The economy of Japan, which has reported 840 cases, including 691 from the cruise ship Diamond Princess, shrank 1.6% in the fourth quarter of 2019 as the country was slammed by a sales tax hike and a powerful typhoon. Another quarter of contraction will put the world's third biggest economy into recession.Germany, the biggest economy in Europe and number four in the world, ground to a halt right before the coronavirus outbreak set in, dragged down by the country's struggling factories. German companies rely on China to buy cars and other products, and economists at Berenberg bank said Monday they now expect the economy to contract in the first quarter of 2020. Official data published Tuesday confirmed GDP did not grow in the final three months of 2019.South Korea is also in a vulnerable position. Exports to China, its largest market, were positive in December for the first time in 14 months. But research firm Oxford Economics expects both exports and industrial production to suffer because of the outbreak in China. It warned that South Korean electronics, autos and electrical equipment makers could struggle to get the parts they need from China to keep their factories running. Hyundai (HYMTF) has already been forced to stop production at plants in South Korea because of parts shortages.And because people are more likely to stay home during an outbreak to avoid getting sick, consumer demand could suffer in South Korea. President Moon Jae-in said the country was at a "watershed moment" Sunday, as he issued the highest level of national alert and ordered new resources to tackle the outbreak.A global issueA slew of companies including Apple (AAPL) have warned that the coronavirus will prevent them from meeting sales or profit targets for the first three months of the year. But many of the financial projections assumed the coronavirus would be contained to China.The International Air Transport Association, fogr example, warned last week that coronavirus could cost global carriers nearly $30 billion in lost revenue. Global demand would drop by 4.7%, the first decline since the financial crisis.The group's estimate was based, however, on the disruption caused by SARS when it ripped through China in 2003. That virus caused real economic damage over a period of months, including for airlines, but the sharp decline in activity was "followed by an equally quick recovery," according to IATA."We don't yet know exactly how the [current] outbreak will develop and whether it will follow the same profile as SARS or not," IATA warned.The continued spread of the novel coronavirus makes the SARS comparison increasingly tenuous. Major central banks have used up much of the ammunition they would typically deploy to fight economic downturns since the 2008 financial crisis, and global debt levels have never been higher. Those factors could limit the response by policymakers around the world. Diane Swonk, the chief economist at Grant Thornton, said Monday on Twitter that there is a growing consensus among economists that the US Federal Reserve will have to cut interest rates, perhaps as early as next month, in response to the coronavirus. "It may not be called a health pandemic yet but it is an economic pandemic," she said.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-21T23:38:43Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/21/business/company-earnings-coronavirus/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Coronavirus: Investors are betting on a quick recovery. What if they're wrong?  - CNN
description : A growing number of companies are warning that the coronavirus will prevent them from meeting sales or profit targets for the first three months of the year. Some are even getting specific, and putting a number on the financial damage. 
keywords : business, Coronavirus: Investors are betting on a quick recovery. What if they're wrong?  - CNN
content: Yet the situation remains highly uncertain, and many of the financial projections assume the coronavirus will be contained in China over the coming weeks and months, and that there won't be a major outbreak in another country. If the Chinese economy doesn't come roaring back as quickly as expected, investors could be caught off guard. "Investors have largely taken the view that the impact will be temporary, hopefully short-lived, and that most of the weakness should be reversed with a strong rebound in the quarters that follow," Peter Oppenheimer, chief global equity strategist at Goldman Sachs, wrote this week.The International Air Transport Association, which represents major airlines, warned this week that coronavirus could cost global carriers nearly $30 billion in lost revenue. Global demand would drop by 4.7%, the first overall decline since the financial crisis. The group's financial estimate is based, however, on the disruption caused by SARS when it ripped through China in 2003. That virus caused real damage over a period of months, including for airlines, but the sharp decline in activity was "followed by an equally quick recovery," according to IATA."We don't yet know exactly how the [current] outbreak will develop and whether it will follow the same profile as SARS or not," the group warned. Maersk, the world's largest container shipping company, said Thursday that it was having a "very weak" start to the year, with factories in China, which make the goods it transports, running at around 50% to 60% of capacity. CEO Søren Skou said he expects production to ramp up to 90% by the first week of March, but he cautioned that there are "still a lot of uncertainties."Disney (DIS) warned that income from its parks in China could drop by $280 million this quarter, assuming the resorts are closed for two months. "The precise magnitude of the financial impact is highly dependent on the duration of the closures and how quickly we can resume normal operations," CFO Christine McCarthy said on an earnings call. How quickly China recovers matters a great deal to global companies. The country is the world's factory, churning out products such as the iPhone and driving demand for commodities like oil and copper. It also boasts hundreds of millions of wealthy consumers who spend big on luxury products, tourism and cars. China's economy accounted for roughly 4% of world GDP in 2003; it now makes up 16% of global output.Damage doneThe coronavirus has already caused significant damage. China's approach to containing the spread of the virus has kept cities under lockdown and factories shuttered, causing widespread disruption to businesses across the globe, which rely on China as a manufacturing powerhouse and a market for their goods.Qantas Airways (QABSY) said this week that the virus could shave up to $100 million off profit from the second half of its fiscal year. Air France-KLM (AFLYY) estimated the virus could slash its earnings by as much as $216 million between February and April.Jaguar Land Rover, which has resorted to flying parts out of China to keep production going in Europe, expects to take a hit from the collapse in demand for cars in the country, where passenger car sales plunged by 92% in the first two weeks of February, according to an industry association.Other companies with significant ties to China have also issued financial warnings, including Apple (AAPL), Wynn Resorts (WYNN) and Qualcomm (QCOM). What comes next?Much depends on whether the coronavirus continues to spread. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director general of the World Health Organization, told reporters Friday that there's great concern about the potential for the coronavirus to spread beyond China. There's still time to contain the virus, Ghebreyesus cautioned, "but the window of opportunity is narrowing."Coronavirus cases in South Korea, a major producer of the memory chips used in smartphones, have jumped from about 28 a week ago to more than 200. Singapore has reported 86 cases, while Iran said Friday that the virus has spread to several cities.The International Monetary Fund's managing director, Kristalina Georgieva, said in a blog post this week that the organization expects a severe drop in China's first quarter economic growth, but "only a small reduction for the entire year" if the spread of the virus is quickly contained.A longer lasting and more severe outbreak will result in a sharper slowdown, with "more substantial supply chain disruptions and a more persistent drop in investor confidence," she warned.If the coronavirus outbreak becomes a global pandemic, $1 trillion could be wiped off the world economy, with recessions in the United States and the eurozone, according to economists at Oxford Economics. A pandemic limited to Asia would knock some $400 billion off global GDP in 2020. For now, demand around the world is "holding up quite well," while measures to contain the virus in China appear to be working, giving companies reason to be optimistic, said John Stopford, head of multi-asset income at Investec Asset Management. "The consensus view is that these kinds of shocks tend to have a short-term impact but then most of that is recovered," he told CNN Business.At the same time, prolonged shutdowns in China or an increase in cases outside the country could cause longer term disruption, Stopford said. "The longer it goes on, the incrementally worse the consequences become. If Chinese production is out for two quarters rather than one, the impact on businesses will be much more material."The response of the Chinese government is another unknown. It has already stepped in to cushion the blow to the domestic economy through fiscal stimulus and subsidies, and may step up measures to contain the fallout. Stocks at risk?While stock markets are starting to price in the impact of measures to contain the virus, they are not accounting for the considerable uncertainty that still surrounds the outbreak, said Alastair George, investment strategist at Edison Investment Research. "We believe that markets are underplaying the risk of a rise in coronavirus-related pneumonia in nations outside China, and the impact of resulting control measures," he added. "There is the risk of a correction if measures to contain the virus spread outside China."That risk is exacerbated by the fact that equity market valuations in the United States and continental Europe are on the expensive side, George told CNN Business.Goldman Sachs's Oppenheimer also cautioned that stock prices may not be reflecting the potential impact of the coronavirus on earnings."Notably, a dash for government bonds, which remain at their yield lows for the year, and precious metals, suggest at least some investors are seeking protection from a decline in global growth expectations," George said.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-21T04:29:25Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/20/business/iata-airlines-coronavirus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Global air traffic could fall this year for the first time in a decade because of the coronavirus - CNN
description : The global airline industry is facing huge financial losses and its first decline in more than a decade because of the novel coronavirus outbreak. 
keywords : business, Global air traffic could fall this year for the first time in a decade because of the coronavirus - CNN
content: The International Air Transport Authority (IATA) warned on Thursday that the virus' impact on demand could cost airlines more than $29 billion, with Asian carriers bearing the brunt of the losses. The outbreak will also likely reduce global traffic by 4.7%, wiping out IATA's earlier forecast for growth and marking the first overall decline in demand since the global financial crisis of 2008 - 2009. The coronavirus has killed more than 2,200 people worldwide, with all but 11 of those deaths in mainland China. The total number of infected worldwide stands at over 76,000.In response, dozens of airlines have canceled or reduced services to mainland China. Beijing has also placed more than 780 million people under travel restrictions in an effort to contain the virus, and suspended all domestic and international tour packages.  IATA's forecast assumes that the outbreak remains mostly in China. "If it spreads more widely to Asia-Pacific markets then impacts on airlines from other regions would be larger," the authority said. Airlines have already started to feel the pain. Qantas Airlines (QABSY) said on Thursday that the virus could carve up to $100 million of pre-tax profit from the second half of the company's fiscal year. Air France-KLM (AFLYY) also said on Thursday that the virus could slash its earnings by as much as $216 million between February and April.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-21T04:29:25Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/20/business/iata-airlines-coronavirus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: Global air traffic could fall this year for the first time in a decade because of the coronavirus - CNN
description : The global airline industry is facing huge financial losses and its first decline in more than a decade because of the novel coronavirus outbreak. 
keywords : business, Global air traffic could fall this year for the first time in a decade because of the coronavirus - CNN
content: The International Air Transport Authority (IATA) warned on Thursday that the virus' impact on demand could cost airlines more than $29 billion, with Asian carriers bearing the brunt of the losses. The outbreak will also likely reduce global traffic by 4.7%, wiping out IATA's earlier forecast for growth and marking the first overall decline in demand since the global financial crisis of 2008 - 2009. The coronavirus has killed more than 2,200 people worldwide, with all but 11 of those deaths in mainland China. The total number of infected worldwide stands at over 76,000.In response, dozens of airlines have canceled or reduced services to mainland China. Beijing has also placed more than 780 million people under travel restrictions in an effort to contain the virus, and suspended all domestic and international tour packages.  IATA's forecast assumes that the outbreak remains mostly in China. "If it spreads more widely to Asia-Pacific markets then impacts on airlines from other regions would be larger," the authority said. Airlines have already started to feel the pain. Qantas Airlines (QABSY) said on Thursday that the virus could carve up to $100 million of pre-tax profit from the second half of the company's fiscal year. Air France-KLM (AFLYY) also said on Thursday that the virus could slash its earnings by as much as $216 million between February and April.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-20T14:29:59Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/20/business/maersk-earnings-coronavirus/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Maersk warns of coronavirus blow - CNN
description : Maersk, the world's largest container shipping company, has warned of a "very weak" start to the year as the coronavirus keeps factories shuttered in China and dents demand for the transport of goods.
keywords : business, Maersk warns of coronavirus blow - CNN
content: The Danish ship operator said Thursday that it has canceled more than 50 trips to and from Asia since the Lunar New Year holiday was extended because of the outbreak. Shipping rates are expected to decrease as demand slips, the company said in an earnings report."We estimate factories in China are operating at 50% to 60% of capacity," CEO Søren Skou said on an earnings call.Maersk expects production to ramp up to 90% by the first week of March, but Skou cautioned that "obviously there are still a lot of uncertainties."In an interview with Julia Chatterley on CNN Business' First Move, Skou said that with 30% of the company's business related to China, the impact from the virus is "quite substantial." What matters most, he said, is what happens in the coming weeks.About 80% of world goods trade by volume is carried by sea, and China is home to seven of the world's 10 busiest container ports, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. That means the coronavirus could have an outsized effect on global shipping.Maersk said it expects earnings of around $5.5 billion this year, which is about 5% below what analysts had been predicting. The company's forecast for shipping volume growth of less than 1% is "pretty downbeat," giving it some breathing space if the impact of the coronavirus is worse than expected, said Michael Field, an analyst at Morningstar. The stock was trading more than 3% lower in Copenhagen on Thursday, extending its decline so far this year to 14%.The financial impact of the coronavirus on businesses across the globe, from airlines and automakers to luxury goods firms and drug companies, is slowly becoming clearer. Qantas and Air France-KLM warned Thursday that the virus could shave hundreds of millions of dollars off profits this year. But uncertainty around how the virus will develop makes it very difficult for companies to measure the disruption. While China on Thursday recorded its lowest number of new daily infections in weeks, South Korea reported a spike in cases.The outbreak adds to a string of challenges facing ship operators, including overcapacity, a slowing global economy, manufacturing weakness and the trade war between the United States and China.It also has the potential to wreak havoc on global trade, given how important China is to the global economy and supply chains."The coronavirus impacts all our businesses," Skou said. "We also have a terminals business in China, and a significant logistics and warehousing business. It's not just ocean."Maersk said that delays in the opening of Chinese shipping yards have pushed out repair and maintenance work on its vessels.The company expects exports from China to be "very weak" in February, "quite weak" in March with "hopefully a strong rebound into April, May and June," Skou said, citing an "external consensus" that the virus will peak in the coming weeks. The company's outlook also assumes no new major outbreaks outside China.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-06T01:19:46Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/05/business/shipping-coronavirus-impact/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Global shipping has been hit by the coronavirus - CNN
description : The arteries of global trade are clogging up as the coronavirus disrupts global shipping and air cargo operations.
keywords : business, Global shipping has been hit by the coronavirus - CNN
content: Shipping companies that carry goods from China to the rest of the world say they are reducing the number of seaborne vessels, as measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus crimp demand for their services and threaten to disrupt global supply chains.About 80% of world goods trade by volume is carried by sea and China is home to seven of the world's 10 busiest container ports, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Nearby Singapore and South Korea each have a mega port too."A closure of the world's manufacturing hub impacts container shipping at large, as it is a vital facilitator of the intra-Asian and global supply chains," said Peter Sand, chief shipping analyst at BIMCO, an international shipping association. "This will affect many industries and limit demand for containerized goods transport," Sand told CNN Business.Everything from cars and machinery to apparel and other consumer staples are shipped in containers, and disruption to the industry could reverberate far beyond China as the country seeks to contain the coronavirus outbreak by keeping factories shut and workers at home.The longer the health crisis lasts, the harder it will be to move goods around the world. The coronavirus outbreak has killed more than 560 people and infected at least 28,000 — mainly in China, where close to 60 million people are living in cities on lockdown.Already, carmaker Hyundai (HYMTF) has suspended production at its plants in South Korea because of a disruption to the supply of parts caused by the coronavirus outbreak in China, the company said in a statement. Floating quarantineThe shutdowns mean that some ships can't get into Chinese ports, as the loading and discharging of goods slows, said Guy Platten, secretary general of the International Chamber of Shipping, a trade body. Others are stuck in dock, waiting for workers to return to ports so that construction and repairs can be completed, Platten added.Still more vessels are idling in "floating quarantined zones," as countries such as Australia refuse to allow ships that have called at Chinese ports to enter their own until the crew has been declared virus-free, added Sand. Platten said he knew of at least one crew that is running low on food because their ship has been idled for so long.In Singapore, authorities are requiring all vessels that have called at ports in mainland China over the past 14 days to submit a health declaration form. According to port authorities, some shipping companies have taken additional measures, including canceling shore leave for crew, but port operations have not been disrupted.Giant shipping companies such as Maersk, MSC Mediterranean Shipping, Hapag-Lloyd and CMA-CGM have said that they have reduced the number of vessels on routes connecting China and Hong Kong with India, Canada, the United States and West Africa. The shipowners say that moves to idle Chinese factories beyond the end of the Lunar New Year has curtailed demand for vessels and forced them to adjust their capacity during what is already a low season for shipping because of the Chinese holiday.BIMCO members, which include 1,900 shipowners, operators, managers, brokers and agents, report limited or no demand from Chinese buyers of seaborne commodities, such as coal, crude oil and iron ore, said Sand. The lack of activity is reflected in oil prices, which have crashed into a bear market.Logistics company Freightos warned clients to expect delays in getting goods out of China, and consider shifting some shipments from sea to air or even sourcing goods from other countries where possible. The backlog of shipments that typically follows the Lunar New Year will be made worse by the current situation, pushing ocean freight rates up and exacerbating delays, Freightos said.Air cargo disruptedIt's not just shipping that's been affected.IAG Cargo, the air cargo arm of British Airways parent IAG (ICAGY), on Monday canceled all services to and from mainland China for at least the remainder of the month, citing a UK government travel advisory, according to a statement on its website.German logistics group DHL has reported "severe disruptions to inbound and outbound air cargo shipments, trucking and rail cargo services." The lockdowns could have a "major impact on supply chain operations and industrial production" in China across industries such as automotive, pharmaceutical and medical supplies, and high-tech manufacturing, it said in a report. DHL has suspended deliveries in Hubei province, the epicenter of the virus, but said it doesn't foresee other changes to its operations. UPS (UPS) and FedEx Express (FDX) said they continue to fly into and out of China. UPS said it has seen reduced demand for its services as a result of business closures. — Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly characterized measures taken by authorities in Singapore. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-19T19:24:21Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/19/business/jaguar-land-rover-chinese-parts-coronavirus/index.html
author: Chris Isidore and Julia Chatterley, CNN
headline: Jaguar Land Rover is flying parts out of China in effort keep its European factories open - CNN
description : Jaguar Land Rover is flying auto parts made in China to its European factories instead of relying on slow-moving cargo ships, as the coronavirus outbreak puts a dent in its supply chain. But its CEO says it's too soon to say whether that will be enough to keep those assembly lines open and building cars.
keywords : business, Jaguar Land Rover is flying parts out of China in effort keep its European factories open - CNN
content: "Parts that are normally six weeks on the ship, we can fly [them] and it's more expensive, but at least we can carry on with the production," CEO Ralf Speth said in an interview with Julia Chatterley on CNN's First Move. However he said it's still not clear if its Chinese suppliers will all be able to ship the parts that Jaguar Land Rover needs, by either air or sea. Chinese factories are struggling to reopen because of the restrictions stemming from the coronavirus outbreak, and the death toll continues to climb. Jaguar Land Rover, owned by India's Tata, is one of many global automakers that have come to depend on the flow of parts from China. "It ... depends whether the supply chain in China and the production in China is in swing again," he said.Jaguar Land Rover has three vehicle assembly plants and one engine plant in the UK and has 35,000 employees in the country. It also has one other European vehicle assembly plant and about 40,000 employees worldwide.The automaker might be able to keep its European plants open without the Chinese parts if the parts are not what Speth refers to as "critical." "Whenever it's a very critical part...then we have to stop the production," he said.If the missing part proves to be something that "can assemble afterwards, then quite clearly it will produce a vehicle and we will assemble the parts after the normal process."At the moment, Jaguar Land Rover's plants will run out of 17 different parts after two more weeks of European production, he said. "You see that we can go down," he said. The company hopes to restart its own production in China next week but at the moment, there is virtually no demand for cars in China, previously the world's largest market for car sales."There are no sales at the very moment in China. Dealers are not back and there is no demand. So that will be a huge impact," said Speth.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-06T01:19:46Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/05/business/shipping-coronavirus-impact/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Global shipping has been hit by the coronavirus - CNN
description : The arteries of global trade are clogging up as the coronavirus disrupts global shipping and air cargo operations.
keywords : business, Global shipping has been hit by the coronavirus - CNN
content: Shipping companies that carry goods from China to the rest of the world say they are reducing the number of seaborne vessels, as measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus crimp demand for their services and threaten to disrupt global supply chains.About 80% of world goods trade by volume is carried by sea and China is home to seven of the world's 10 busiest container ports, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Nearby Singapore and South Korea each have a mega port too."A closure of the world's manufacturing hub impacts container shipping at large, as it is a vital facilitator of the intra-Asian and global supply chains," said Peter Sand, chief shipping analyst at BIMCO, an international shipping association. "This will affect many industries and limit demand for containerized goods transport," Sand told CNN Business.Everything from cars and machinery to apparel and other consumer staples are shipped in containers, and disruption to the industry could reverberate far beyond China as the country seeks to contain the coronavirus outbreak by keeping factories shut and workers at home.The longer the health crisis lasts, the harder it will be to move goods around the world. The coronavirus outbreak has killed more than 560 people and infected at least 28,000 — mainly in China, where close to 60 million people are living in cities on lockdown.Already, carmaker Hyundai (HYMTF) has suspended production at its plants in South Korea because of a disruption to the supply of parts caused by the coronavirus outbreak in China, the company said in a statement. Floating quarantineThe shutdowns mean that some ships can't get into Chinese ports, as the loading and discharging of goods slows, said Guy Platten, secretary general of the International Chamber of Shipping, a trade body. Others are stuck in dock, waiting for workers to return to ports so that construction and repairs can be completed, Platten added.Still more vessels are idling in "floating quarantined zones," as countries such as Australia refuse to allow ships that have called at Chinese ports to enter their own until the crew has been declared virus-free, added Sand. Platten said he knew of at least one crew that is running low on food because their ship has been idled for so long.In Singapore, authorities are requiring all vessels that have called at ports in mainland China over the past 14 days to submit a health declaration form. According to port authorities, some shipping companies have taken additional measures, including canceling shore leave for crew, but port operations have not been disrupted.Giant shipping companies such as Maersk, MSC Mediterranean Shipping, Hapag-Lloyd and CMA-CGM have said that they have reduced the number of vessels on routes connecting China and Hong Kong with India, Canada, the United States and West Africa. The shipowners say that moves to idle Chinese factories beyond the end of the Lunar New Year has curtailed demand for vessels and forced them to adjust their capacity during what is already a low season for shipping because of the Chinese holiday.BIMCO members, which include 1,900 shipowners, operators, managers, brokers and agents, report limited or no demand from Chinese buyers of seaborne commodities, such as coal, crude oil and iron ore, said Sand. The lack of activity is reflected in oil prices, which have crashed into a bear market.Logistics company Freightos warned clients to expect delays in getting goods out of China, and consider shifting some shipments from sea to air or even sourcing goods from other countries where possible. The backlog of shipments that typically follows the Lunar New Year will be made worse by the current situation, pushing ocean freight rates up and exacerbating delays, Freightos said.Air cargo disruptedIt's not just shipping that's been affected.IAG Cargo, the air cargo arm of British Airways parent IAG (ICAGY), on Monday canceled all services to and from mainland China for at least the remainder of the month, citing a UK government travel advisory, according to a statement on its website.German logistics group DHL has reported "severe disruptions to inbound and outbound air cargo shipments, trucking and rail cargo services." The lockdowns could have a "major impact on supply chain operations and industrial production" in China across industries such as automotive, pharmaceutical and medical supplies, and high-tech manufacturing, it said in a report. DHL has suspended deliveries in Hubei province, the epicenter of the virus, but said it doesn't foresee other changes to its operations. UPS (UPS) and FedEx Express (FDX) said they continue to fly into and out of China. UPS said it has seen reduced demand for its services as a result of business closures. — Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly characterized measures taken by authorities in Singapore. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-13T11:42:57Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/13/business/china-car-industry-coronavirus/index.html
author: Laura He, CNN Business
headline: China's autoparts supply chain will be disrupted by coronavirus, industry association says - CNN
description : The global auto industry knew that the coronavirus outbreak would be damaging. Now China is starting to reveal how bad the problem could get. 
keywords : business, China's autoparts supply chain will be disrupted by coronavirus, industry association says - CNN
content: Major automakers sold fewer than 2 million cars in the country last month, an 18% plunge from a year earlier, according to China's Association of Automobile Manufacturers. The group compiles its monthly tally by collecting data from carmakers in China.The government-backed industry group acknowledged that the novel coronavirus played a role in January's big drop, and said declines could be even steeper in February. The association said the virus will deliver a "huge shock" to the car industry, adding that it expects the impact to be worse than 2003's SARS epidemic. The growth of car sales in China slowed to 13% in April 2003 and 8% that May — sharply lower than the 34% growth it recorded in March of that year. The industry later rebounded, though.The coronavirus is hitting a Chinese car industry that's already under huge stress. Sales have now declined for 19 consecutive months, according to the association's data. The spread of the virus, which has killed more than 1,300 people and infected at least 60,000 others, threatens to push the industry even deeper into recession. The outbreak will disrupt China's auto supply chain, the industry group said, adding that the disease could have a "butterfly effect" on the global car industry. Many auto plants in China have already been shut for weeks, and further delays are possible as the government attempts to contain the virus. Toyota (TM), for example, said last week that it won't reopen its plants in China until at least Monday. The auto association said that only 59 out of 183 factories in China that manufacture complete cars had resumed production as of Wednesday. Experts fear that car plants across the globe could grind to a halt if parts suppliers in China also remain closed for much longer. China's push for the adoption of new energy vehicles, such as electric or plug-in hybrid cars, may also be in trouble. Sales of those cars plummeted 54% in January to 44,000 units. Sales of electric vehicles were already falling. The government has been cutting subsidies for those types of vehicles since last July as it tries to weed out an overcrowded market.-- Jill Disis and Charles Riley contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-19T10:00:38Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/19/business/pharma-drugs-coronavirus/index.html
author: Eoin McSweeney, CNN Business
headline: Drugmakers could be hit by the coronavirus. India is especially vulnerable - CNN
description : Drugmakers in India are bracing for potential disruption from the coronavirus. If they're hit, the impact could be felt around the world.
keywords : business, Drugmakers could be hit by the coronavirus. India is especially vulnerable - CNN
content: Indian pharmaceutical companies, which produce 20% of the world's drugs supply by volume, are warning that the outbreak threatens to disrupt the supply of raw materials from China. The drugmakers say they have enough supplies on hand to continue production for now. But their operations could be endangered if the coronavirus continues to cause disruption in China. Almost 70% of the raw materials India uses in drug manufacturing are imported from China, according to brokerage firm SBICAP Securities. Hubei province, where the coronavirus originated, is a major production hub."A lot of our pharma value chain is linked to China," Umang Vohra, the CEO of generics producer Cipla, told investors on February 5. "It is linked for the entire pharmaceutical industry.""If this coronavirus thing continues for more than a month or 45 days, that will begin to create a huge amount of issue for the pharma sector," he added. The coronavirus that started in Wuhan has infected more than 75,000 people around the world, mostly in mainland China. The death toll is more than 2,000. China is slowly getting back to work, but some plants in the country remain closed. It could be weeks or months before global supply chains fully recover.India is the world's biggest exporter of generic drugs, sending huge volumes of medicines to countries including the United States. Kunal Dhamesha, an analyst at SBICAP Securities, said companies that make anti-infective and hormones therapies, such as GSK India, Pfizer (PFE), and Cipla, are most at risk from material shortages.Aurobindo Pharma, Cadila Healthcare and Sun Pharma are among the firms that say they are monitoring the situation. Kamal Sharma, the vice chairman of Lupin, told investors on February 6 that while his company has enough supplies to ride out the coronavirus issue for months, executives are "not getting visibility on shipment of containers" from China. Sun Pharmaceutical, which sells mainly to the United States, said its inventory will meet demand in the short term. But it warned that supply chains are complicated, and the original source of material is not always clear.  "Many of the raw materials, which we may be buying in India, may have dependence on the Chinese intermediate," Dilip Shanghvi, the company's managing director, said during an earnings conference call on February 6. "So we think we are buying from India, but there is a China link." Global implicationsJens Spahn, the German health minister, warned Thursday that the outbreak could lead to drug shortages in Europe. He called on the European Commission to devise proposals to address the issue. European and American drugmakers say they are also watching for potential materials shortages. "In the short term, we are fine but obviously this is something that we need to keep under review," Emma Walmsley, the CEO of GSK (GSK), said on February 5. "We regularly monitor our supply chains overall for these kind of situations, and we are prepared for these kind of issues, but we need to keep an eye on how long term it will be."Mylan (MYL), a large generics manufacturer, is monitoring the situation and has put additional protections in place. Pfizer (PFE) said it has not seen any disruption to its supply chain, and the majority of its finished products and ingredients are sourced from countries other than China.With a majority of some US medical supplies coming from or originating in China, the coronavirus could have "chilling implications" for supply chains, according to Robert Kadlec, assistant secretary at the US Department of Health and Human Services."The distributors and suppliers feel like right now they're okay," he said at a briefing Tuesday held by the Council on Foreign Relations. "How this plays out longer term is still a matter of concern."— Michael Nedelman contributed reporting
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-13T11:42:57Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/13/business/china-car-industry-coronavirus/index.html
author: Laura He, CNN Business
headline: China's autoparts supply chain will be disrupted by coronavirus, industry association says - CNN
description : The global auto industry knew that the coronavirus outbreak would be damaging. Now China is starting to reveal how bad the problem could get. 
keywords : business, China's autoparts supply chain will be disrupted by coronavirus, industry association says - CNN
content: Major automakers sold fewer than 2 million cars in the country last month, an 18% plunge from a year earlier, according to China's Association of Automobile Manufacturers. The group compiles its monthly tally by collecting data from carmakers in China.The government-backed industry group acknowledged that the novel coronavirus played a role in January's big drop, and said declines could be even steeper in February. The association said the virus will deliver a "huge shock" to the car industry, adding that it expects the impact to be worse than 2003's SARS epidemic. The growth of car sales in China slowed to 13% in April 2003 and 8% that May — sharply lower than the 34% growth it recorded in March of that year. The industry later rebounded, though.The coronavirus is hitting a Chinese car industry that's already under huge stress. Sales have now declined for 19 consecutive months, according to the association's data. The spread of the virus, which has killed more than 1,300 people and infected at least 60,000 others, threatens to push the industry even deeper into recession. The outbreak will disrupt China's auto supply chain, the industry group said, adding that the disease could have a "butterfly effect" on the global car industry. Many auto plants in China have already been shut for weeks, and further delays are possible as the government attempts to contain the virus. Toyota (TM), for example, said last week that it won't reopen its plants in China until at least Monday. The auto association said that only 59 out of 183 factories in China that manufacture complete cars had resumed production as of Wednesday. Experts fear that car plants across the globe could grind to a halt if parts suppliers in China also remain closed for much longer. China's push for the adoption of new energy vehicles, such as electric or plug-in hybrid cars, may also be in trouble. Sales of those cars plummeted 54% in January to 44,000 units. Sales of electric vehicles were already falling. The government has been cutting subsidies for those types of vehicles since last July as it tries to weed out an overcrowded market.-- Jill Disis and Charles Riley contributed to this report.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-15T07:37:04Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/15/business/pandemic-bonds-coronavirus/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: These bonds were supposed to help fight diseases like coronavirus. They've never paid out  - CNN
description : Three years ago, the World Bank issued new bonds to raise funds that could be used to help poor countries fight pandemics. The money is still sitting on the sidelines.
keywords : business, These bonds were supposed to help fight diseases like coronavirus. They've never paid out  - CNN
content: The bank was responding to an Ebola outbreak in 2014 that killed more than 11,000 people. It sold two sets of bonds that, under certain conditions, would release capital to fight the spread of disease.One $225 million bond covers influenza and coronavirus outbreaks and now pays interest of over 8% a year. A second $95 million bond covers ailments such as Ebola and Lassa Fever, as well as coronavirus, paying investors interest of nearly 13% annually. Both are scheduled to mature on July 15. Investors are now preparing for the possibility that the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in China will continue to spread, triggering a payout to the World Bank's Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility. That would leave bond owners with much less to show for their investment.Critics of the bonds say they won't make much of a difference, even if the cash is released. They argue that onerous conditions required to release the money mean that it will arrive too late to help people in the path of the coronavirus outbreak. When is an outbreak an emergency?The World Bank spearheaded the development of so-called pandemic bonds in response to the Ebola outbreak that swept across West Africa and beyond between in 2014 and 2015. The idea was to quickly channel funding to the world's poorest countries facing a major disease outbreak with pandemic potential. To qualify, the epidemic has to meet conditions based on the number of deaths, the duration of the outbreak, the speed at which the disease spreads and the number of countries affected.But critics claim that conditions needed to trigger payouts are far too onerous, preventing or delaying the arrival of much needed help. They point to the ongoing Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo as one example where the bonds haven't worked. The coronavirus hasn't yet triggered a payment, either."The specific triggers were chosen in close coordination with the World Health Organization and no one could foresee that other outbreaks would behave differently," a World Bank spokesperson said.The Ebola outbreak, which began in 2018, has claimed more than 2,200 lives — more than that of the coronavirus. But no payments have yet been dispensed to fight the second largest Ebola epidemic on record because there have not yet been 20 deaths in a second country, a requirement stipulated in the terms of the bonds. The DRC is Africa's second largest country by land area.Olga Jonas, a senior fellow at the Harvard Global Health Institute who spent 33 years at the World Bank, described pandemic bonds as a "publicity stunt" that will not help to stop outbreaks or prevent pandemics. The money, she argues, would never arrive quickly enough to make a difference."Only the reinsurers and investors came out ahead," said Jonas, who spent seven years coordinating the World Bank's response to pandemics. Former World Bank chief economist Larry Summers, another prominent critic, has publicly dismissed the initiative as "financial goofiness" and an "embarrassing error."According to a World Bank spokesperson, the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility has paid $61.4 million to fight Ebola in the DRC.The coronavirus spreads  The situation could be different with coronavirus. The global number of cases has swelled to more than 67,000. The death toll has meanwhile topped 1,525, including three outside mainland China.Payouts from the World Bank's pandemic bonds will be triggered if, at least 12 weeks after the start of the outbreak, the number of confirmed cases is still growing and the virus has killed at least 20 people outside China, according to Scott Lothian, an investment manager at Baillie Gifford, one of the investors in the bonds. The bonds are currently trading at a discount to their original price, according to Lothian. In other words, markets believe there is a reasonable likelihood that a payout will be triggered."I think that's on coronavirus," Lothian told CNN Business. The maximum payment for coronavirus under the bonds is $196 million, to be paid out in batches depending on the number of deaths and geographic spread. At the very least, 250 deaths in at least two countries would lead to a payout of $56 million.Lothian said that the bonds should not be deemed successful only if they pay out, as they have set a precedent for transferring risks that are difficult to price to financial markets. If payout conditions are loosened on future pandemic bonds, that debt will be more expensive to issue, he added."Capital markets are helping to provide insurance for public health risks in developing countries that would otherwise not be covered," added Andrew Cave, head of governance and sustainability at Baillie Gifford.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-20T03:51:50Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/19/business/qantas-stock-coronavirus/index.html
author: Sherisse Pham, CNN Business
headline: The financial cost of the coronavirus is becoming clearer for airlines - CNN
description : Qantas, Air France and KLM are taking a big hit from the novel coronavirus.
keywords : business, The financial cost of the coronavirus is becoming clearer for airlines - CNN
content: The airlines on Thursday estimated the financial cost from the outbreak, which has forced airlines around the world to cancel flights in Asia. Qantas, the flagship carrier of Australia, reported the coronavirus could reduce its profit by up to 150 million Australian dollars ($100 million) in the second half of its fiscal year.Hours later, Air France-KLM said that the virus could slash its earnings by as much as €200 million ($216 million) between February and April. The global airline industry is facing significant financial losses after dozens of carriers canceled or reduced flights to Asia because of the coronavirus outbreak. Air France and KLM have suspended flights to Shanghai and Beijing. Qantas has already canceled its service to Shanghai until the end of May. Qantas CEO Alan Joyce said Thursday that the airline plans to reduce flights across Asia by 15% until the end of May because of weak demand to Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan."We have a lot of flexibility in how we respond," Joyce said during an earnings presentation. "We can extend these cuts, cut deeper if we need to, or add capacity back in." The International Air Transport Association said Thursday that its initial assessment showed that the coronavirus could cost carriers in Asia nearly $28 billion in lost revenue.The trade group said that carriers based outside the region are likely to suffer a smaller sales hit of $1.5 billion.The International Air Transport Association said its forecast assumes that the center of the public health emergency remains in China. Earnings reportsQantas reported pre-tax profit of 771 million Australian dollars ($512 million) for the six months ended in December, a slight decline from the same period a year earlier. It also announced a share buyback of 150 million Australian dollars ($100 million). Shares rose nearly 6% in Sydney. Air France-KLM said that its operating income for 2019 dropped to €1.14 billion ($1.2 billion) as fuel costs increased.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-19T19:24:21Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/19/business/jaguar-land-rover-chinese-parts-coronavirus/index.html
author: Chris Isidore and Julia Chatterley, CNN
headline: Jaguar Land Rover is flying parts out of China in effort keep its European factories open - CNN
description : Jaguar Land Rover is flying auto parts made in China to its European factories instead of relying on slow-moving cargo ships, as the coronavirus outbreak puts a dent in its supply chain. But its CEO says it's too soon to say whether that will be enough to keep those assembly lines open and building cars.
keywords : business, Jaguar Land Rover is flying parts out of China in effort keep its European factories open - CNN
content: "Parts that are normally six weeks on the ship, we can fly [them] and it's more expensive, but at least we can carry on with the production," CEO Ralf Speth said in an interview with Julia Chatterley on CNN's First Move. However he said it's still not clear if its Chinese suppliers will all be able to ship the parts that Jaguar Land Rover needs, by either air or sea. Chinese factories are struggling to reopen because of the restrictions stemming from the coronavirus outbreak, and the death toll continues to climb. Jaguar Land Rover, owned by India's Tata, is one of many global automakers that have come to depend on the flow of parts from China. "It ... depends whether the supply chain in China and the production in China is in swing again," he said.Jaguar Land Rover has three vehicle assembly plants and one engine plant in the UK and has 35,000 employees in the country. It also has one other European vehicle assembly plant and about 40,000 employees worldwide.The automaker might be able to keep its European plants open without the Chinese parts if the parts are not what Speth refers to as "critical." "Whenever it's a very critical part...then we have to stop the production," he said.If the missing part proves to be something that "can assemble afterwards, then quite clearly it will produce a vehicle and we will assemble the parts after the normal process."At the moment, Jaguar Land Rover's plants will run out of 17 different parts after two more weeks of European production, he said. "You see that we can go down," he said. The company hopes to restart its own production in China next week but at the moment, there is virtually no demand for cars in China, previously the world's largest market for car sales."There are no sales at the very moment in China. Dealers are not back and there is no demand. So that will be a huge impact," said Speth.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-05T10:15:52Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/05/business/disney-shanghai-hong-kong-parks-coronavirus/index.html
author: Michelle Toh, CNN Business
headline: Disney could take a $280 million hit from its Chinese parks because of the coronavirus and protests - CNN
description : Disney is counting costs of the deadly coronavirus outbreak as two of its parks remain closed in China.
keywords : business, Disney could take a $280 million hit from its Chinese parks because of the coronavirus and protests - CNN
content: The company warned of the potential hit to park profit during its earnings call Tuesday, adding that the coronavirus will hurt its results for the quarter through March and the fiscal year as a whole. Disney (DIS) suspended operations at some of its facilities in China last month in response to the ongoing public health crisis, which has killed nearly 500 people and infected more than 24,500 — mostly in mainland China. For now, the properties in Hong Kong and Shanghai are closed indefinitely, and "the precise magnitude of the financial impact is highly dependent on the duration of the closures," Chief Financial Officer Christine McCarthy said.Operating income at the company's Shanghai park could drop by about $135 million this quarter if the park remains closed for two months, she added.The Hong Kong park, which has long struggled to gain traction, was already suffering from the drop in tourism because of mass protests that gripped the city in the second half of 2019. Between the protests and the virus, the Hong Kong park could lose roughly $145 million in operating income over the quarter, McCarthy said. The virus outbreak in China struck at a particularly bad time for businesses. The country recently celebrated its biggest holiday, the Lunar New Year, which is typically a boon for the entertainment and travel sectors as most Chinese residents enjoy a week off. This year, many companies are missing out on the boom that the holiday usually brings.McCarthy said that this period is normally rewarding for Disney, with "strong attendance and occupancy levels." Earnings from Disney's Shanghai park had become especially important. Prior to the outbreak, attendance there had been growing, which was helping offset poor performance at the Hong Kong resort, the company said. The events in China dampened an otherwise strong quarter for Disney. The company posted earnings Tuesday that were in line with expectations, and it also impressed analysts with more subscribers than expected for its new streaming service, Disney+. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-14T16:28:32Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/14/business/europe-gdp-germany/index.html
author: Julia Horowitz, CNN Business
headline: Europe's stagnant economy is vulnerable to a shock from China - CNN
description : Recession fears are stalking Europe again after Germany's economy flatlined at the end of 2019. The coronavirus now threatens to slam exports to China.
keywords : business, Europe's stagnant economy is vulnerable to a shock from China - CNN
content: The German economy did not grow in the final three months of last year, setting up the country for a difficult 2020 just when it was meant to begin experiencing a revival. Weakness in the world's fourth largest economy reverberated across the eurozone, where growth slumped to a seven-year low of 0.1% in final quarter of last year.That makes Europe especially vulnerable to the looming hit from the coronavirus outbreak. More than 64,000 people globally have been infected, and China's economy is still struggling to get moving again after the extended Lunar New Year holiday. "The [eurozone] economy should be about to turn a corner, but the coronavirus now means that [the first quarter] could well be a write-off," Claus Vistesen, chief eurozone economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said in a research note.Germany was already in a feeble condition, logging growth of just 0.6% for the whole of 2019 amid weak global auto sales, the US-China trade war and uncertainty over Brexit. Economists thought that the economy, which has been held back by its manufacturing sector, would start to pick up early this year. Then came the outbreak of the novel coronavirus.China is the third biggest destination for German goods exports, and a drop in demand there is expected to further damage the country's factories. In 2018, the country exported goods worth nearly €94 billion ($101.6 billion) to China, more than four times as much as France.German carmakers, which do big business in China, are exposed: Major automakers sold fewer than 2 million cars in China last month, an 18% plunge from a year earlier."The impact from the coronavirus on the Chinese economy is likely to delay any rebound in the manufacturing sector as it at least temporarily disrupts supply chains," Carsten Brzeski, chief German economist at ING, wrote Friday.That's drummed up talk about a potential recession in Germany, or two consecutive quarters of negative growth. Deutsche Bank, in a note to clients earlier this week, called a recession in the first half of the year "quite probable."Andrew Kenningham, chief Europe economist at Capital Economics, said he thinks Germany's economy will remain at a standstill in the first half of 2020, which means a recession is "absolutely on the cards.""If you're forecasting zero [growth], then it's definitely fair to be talking about a potential recession," he said.That doesn't bode well for the rest of Europe.Kenningham predicts that economic growth in the eurozone will come in at 0.1% in the first quarter and 0.2% between April and June. Without momentum at the start of the year, he expects annual growth this year to be weaker than in 2019, when it was 1.2%.The full impact of the coronavirus on the global economy remains unclear, with little clarity about when the pace of infections will level off and begin to decline. In the meantime, workers in the world's second largest economy have had a hard time getting back to work, even as some bigger companies try to reopen their doors."Looking forward, the coronavirus provides a substantial risk for the expected global recovery, as hopes were pinned on an improvement of the Chinese economy," Deutsche Bank said in its note.Should the situation continue to deteriorate, the European Central Bank may need to step in, pushing interest rates further into negative territory or increasing monthly bond purchases. President Christine Lagarde had started to review these unconventional policies, and the expectation had been for the central bank to keep policy on hold in the meantime.
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-26T21:06:07Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/26/business/oil-prices-coronavirus-bear-market/index.html
author: Matt Egan, CNN Business
headline: Oil plunges deeper into bear market on coronavirus fallout - CNN
description : The spread of the coronavirus around the world is sending shockwaves through an oil market ill-prepared for a serious blow to energy demand.
keywords : business, Oil plunges deeper into bear market on coronavirus fallout - CNN
content: Oil prices plunged deeper into a bear market Wednesday, reflecting fears about the economic repercussions of the rapidly-spreading health crisis. Economists are warning the coronavirus could spark a severe economic slowdown or even recession in the United States and elsewhere.The outbreak is the biggest shock to demand for oil since the 2008 financial crisis.US crude tumbled another 3% on Thursday to around $47.25 a barrel. That's the lowest price since January 2019 and marks a 25% plunge from the recent peak of $63.27 a barrel on January 6. For the week, oil has plunged more than 11%, underscoring the intensifying fears about the health crisis."You're seeing the ripple effects of the coronavirus proliferate outside of China. That is what is turning investor sentiment on oil and other risk assets as well," said Michael Tran, director of global energy strategy at RBC Capital Markets.Citing the coronavirus, on Wednesday, Goldman Sachs told clients it is cutting its 2020 oil demand growth forecast in half to just 600,000 barrels per day. "If the coronavirus spreads further globally, then we expect further downside risk to our estimates," Goldman Sachs analyst Brian Singer wrote in a report. The plunge in oil prices has clobbered energy stocks, which entered a bear market late last month. The ETF Energy Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLE), which tracks the sector, lost a stunning 11% during the first three days of this week and nearly 20% so far in 2020.The oil patch suffered more selling Wednesday, even as the broader markets staged a fragile rebound. Devon Energy (DVN) and Diamondback Energy (FANG) fell more than 5% apiece, making them among the biggest losers on the S&P 500. Larger rivals ExxonMobil (XOM) and Chevron (CVX) also retreated.Unlike recent oil bear markets caused by excess supply, this one is all about weakening demand. The shutdown of large parts of China's economy, combined with the spread of the coronavirus to South Korea and Italy, has caused a sharp decline in flight activity and vehicle traffic. That means there is less oil needed for jet fuel and motor gasoline.For instance, United Airlines (UAL) has suspended flights between the United States and four destinations in China. Near-term demand for flights to China has fallen to near zero and demand for flights to the rest of the trans-Pacific routes has plunged 75%. Flight patterns from South Korea have dropped 25% to 30% below normal levels, Tran said, citing RBC's use of artificial intelligence to track real-time flight patterns."It's tough to suggest this a buy-the-dip opportunity," Tran said, "because there is very little evidence to suggest we're in for a v-shaped recovery in the near-term."The weak demand outlook raises pressure on OPEC and its allies to take decisive action. The group is scheduled to meet next week in Vienna to decide whether further supply cuts are needed to balance the market."Historically during periods of demand shock, OPEC has come together to cut production to offset weakness in demand," Singer, the Goldman analyst, wrote. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-06T17:35:31Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/06/business/oil-prices-coronavirus-opec-russia/index.html
author: Matt Egan, CNN Business
headline: Oil is in a tailspin over the coronavirus and OPEC might not be coming to the rescue  - CNN
description : The rapidly-spreading coronavirus in China poses the biggest demand threat to the oil market since the 2008 financial crisis. Yet OPEC and Russia can't agree on whether to come to the rescue. 
keywords : business, Oil is in a tailspin over the coronavirus and OPEC might not be coming to the rescue  - CNN
content: Saudi Arabia, seeking to cushion the blow from the coronavirus, proposed further production cuts during three days of meetings in Vienna this week. But Russia is pushing back -- even though fears about the coronavirus have sent oil prices crashing into yet another bear market. The Russians said "they need more time" to weigh recommendations from the group's technical committee and assess the impact of the coronavirus on the market, a source close to the negotiations told CNN Business' John Defterios. The coronavirus has clobbered oil prices because it is destroying demand in China, the world's largest oil importer and the epicenter of global oil demand growth. The crisis has killed more than 560 people, infected over 28,000 and brought large parts of the world's second-largest economy to a standstill.  The compromise proposal from Saudi Arabia was to cut oil production by 600,000 barrels per day, down from 800,000 to 1 million barrels, a senior OPEC source confirmed to CNN. The apparent conflict between OPEC and Russia dashes hopes that the group will be able to arrest the sharp decline in prices. "The coronavirus has completely taken the oil market hostage," said Michael Tran, director of global energy strategy at RBC Capital Markets. "The market is watching what OPEC does with bated breath. If OPEC is not able to stick the landing, it will have a big psychological hit to the market." US oil prices retreated to around $50.70 a barrel on the news. Crude had climbed as high as $52.20 on Thursday on hopes of a strong OPEC response. S&P Global Platts Analytics said earlier this week it was reasonable to expect a 1 million barrel per day production cut by OPEC.  Earlier this week, oil plunged into a bear market, signifying a 20% decline from previous highs. Crude closed at a 13-month low of $49.61 on Tuesday.  Oil demand in 'free fall'Unlike recent oil tailspins, this one has been triggered by demand destruction, not excess supply. And demand shocks can be more challenging to stop because of the uncertainty involved. "What we're facing now is a different beast. Demand is just in free fall," said Tran.  In a best-case scenario, oil demand will tumble by 1.5 million barrels per day in February, according to Platts. The worst-case scenario by the firm calls for demand to plunge by 4 million barrels per day.  Most concerning for oil bulls, the appetite for jet fuel has cratered because major airlines including American Airlines (AAL), Delta Air Lines (DAL) and British Airways have suspended all flights to and from mainland China.  Daily flight cancellations are approaching nearly 3,000, according to RBC, which is using artificial intelligence to track real-time flight patterns. China's Sinopec has slashed its overall crude throughput by about 13% and its refineries are operating in China at minimum run rates, according to Platts.  "This is, in our opinion, the most acute threat to global demand since the financial crisis of 2008," said Tran.  Will Saudi Arabia act alone?Demand for oil has been relatively resilient in the years since the Great Recession, boosted by the rapid economic growth in China and India. Previous demand shocks include the Sept. 11 terror attacks and the SARS infection of 2003. It's unclear what OPEC will do next.  Under new Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud, the kingdom has signaled it would prefer not to act alone anymore. Saudi Arabia would prefer that other major oil players, including Russia, help shoulder the burden of production cuts.  OPEC must now decide if wishes to act alone, without the support of Russia. Such a move could jeopardize the OPEC+ alliance that has worked well in recent years to put a floor beneath weak oil prices.  
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-05T11:00:17Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/05/business/airlines-coronavirus-iata-travel/index.html
author: Charles Riley, CNN Business
headline: Airlines could take $113 billion hit as coronavirus slams travel industry - CNN
description : Global airlines stand to lose $113 billion in sales if the coronavirus continues to spread, according to the International Air Transport Association.
keywords : business, Airlines could take $113 billion hit as coronavirus slams travel industry - CNN
content: The losses would be similar to those experienced by the aviation industry during the global financial crisis of 2008, IATA warned as it dramatically increased its estimate of the damage caused by the outbreak. It said airlines could lose 19% of their business if the virus isn't contained soon. Just two weeks ago, IATA had been expecting lost sales in the range of $30 billion. "The turn of events as a result of [the coronavirus] is almost without precedent. In little over two months, the industry's prospects in much of the world have taken a dramatic turn for the worse," Alexandre de Juniac, the CEO of the industry group, said in a statement. "It is unclear how the virus will develop, but ... this is a crisis."Airlines in Europe and Asia would bear the brunt of the pain, according to IATA. Carriers in Asia Pacific could lose out on sales worth $58 billion. If the virus is contained soon, and economies around the world recovery quickly, total industry losses could be limited to $63 billion, he added.There are already more than 94,000 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus worldwide, and nearly 3,300 deaths, mostly in China. South Korea, Japan, Italy and Iran also already suffering major outbreaks.Travel restrictions and a lack of demand from customers have  encouraged dozen of major airlines to cancel flights to and from mainland China because of the coronavirus. Transatlantic flights, as well as capacity on routes within Europe and the United States, have also been curtailed. Struggling UK carrier Flybe collapsed earlier Thursday as the slump in demand killed off hopes of a government-backed rescue. Scottish airline Loganair said it would take over 16 of Flybe's routes over the coming months.Smaller Asian carriers under pressureAnalysts say Flybe is unlikely to be the last casualty. Josef Pospisil, managing director at Fitch Ratings, said that most big airlines have strong enough balance sheets to weather the shock to demand caused by coronavirus. But smaller carriers, especially those based in Asia, are more vulnerable."There probably will be some small players, regional players, that may be hit really hard," he told CNN Business.Weak airlines that aren't able to secure backing from investors or governments could suffer the same fate as Flybe or become takeover targets, especially in Europe, where industry consolidation is underway.The possibility of other airlines seeking bankruptcy protection or going out of business will depend on a number of factors, including the length of the outbreak, the cash position of various airlines and how quickly passenger demand returns once the crisis has passed, IATA's de Juniac said."It's difficult at this stage to say [whether there will be more bankruptcies]," he told CNN Business. "If the duration is comparable to past outbreaks of SARS or the H1N1, and it's four to five months, the industry should overcome [the crisis], perhaps with some casualties. If it lasts longer, it will be more difficult for a larger number of airlines."'It has a 9/11 feel'De Juniac said the industry has already asked some governments for relief from fees and charges airlines pay. And he raised the possibility of direct government bailouts for airlines, similar to what took place in the United States after the 9/11 attacks."If the outbreak lasts, we will probably need some government assistance in some parts of the world, especially where the airlines are weaker financially, and we will ask for help," he said.The crisis has hit the US industry hard in just the last week, said Gary Kelly, CEO of Southwest Airlines (LUV), in an interview on CNBC."It has a 9/11 feel," he said, adding that customers "don't want to fly for the obvious reason."That view was echoed by other industry executives at an aviation summit Thursday sponsored by the US Chamber of Commerce. American Airlines (AAL), the world's largest airline, is canceling international flights because of the sharp drop in demand, said American CEO Doug Parker. Investors have punished airlines stocks in recent weeks. United Airlines (UAL) stock is down 32% so far this year, for example, and shares in Germany's Lufthansa (DLAKF) are down 29% over the same period.Lufthansa said Thursday it has canceled 7,100 European flights for March, mostly within Germany or on routes to Italy, accounting for about 25% of its total capacity. Earlier this week, Lufthansa said it would ground 150 of its 770 aircraft.  Pospisil said it's still too early to work out how specific airlines will be affected. So far, the pain has followed the virus. Airlines with lots of flights to countries heavily affected by the outbreak are suffering the most."Nobody really knows how bad it's going to get," Pospisil said of the virus' spread. "I don't know, and the airlines don't know either." — Rob North, Chris Isidore and Greg Wallace contributed to this article. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-02-27T18:15:44Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/27/business/coronavirus-business-travel-ban/index.html
author: Hanna Ziady, CNN Business
headline: Business travel banned as Europe's coronavirus outbreak escalates - CNN
description : Big European companies have started to ban or restrict business travel for hundreds of thousands of employees as the coronavirus outbreak accelerates. 
keywords : business, Business travel banned as Europe's coronavirus outbreak escalates - CNN
content: The restrictions are piling pressure on airlines and the broader travel industry, which faces a monthly hit of more than $46 billion from the coronavirus, according to the Global Business Travel Association, a trade body based in Washington, D.C.Nestlé (NSRGF), the world's largest food company, said Thursday it has asked all 291,000 of its employees not to travel internationally for business until the middle of March. "Domestic travel should be replaced by alternative methods of communication where possible," a company spokesperson added.A spokesperson for L'Oreal (LRLCY) said all business trips have been suspended until the end of March "as a precautionary measure."Consumer goods giant Unilever (UL) said it has been restricting travel to and from northern Italy and other affected countries. Beyond that the guidance is "business-critical travel only," a company spokesperson said.Between them, Nestlé, L'Oreal and Unilever employ about 532,000 people worldwide. Italian bank UniCredit (UNCFF) and Amsterdam-based tech group Prosus (PROSY) have also implemented company-wide travel bans to reduce the risk of employees catching the coronavirus. US agricultural company Cargill also said it has banned all non-essential business travel.If more companies do the same, the pressure will build on an aviation industry that is already reeling from a slump in demand for passenger and cargo traffic with Asia.Major European airlines are already taking steps to cut costs. Lufthansa (DLAKY) and Air France-KLM (AFLYY) announced this week that they are offering employees unpaid leave and pausing or reducing hiring. IAG (ICAGY), the parent company of British Airways, said Friday that it could not give accurate profit guidance for 2020 "given the ongoing uncertainty of the potential impact and duration" of the coronavirus. Its stock was trading more than 8% weaker on Friday morning in London, taking losses this week to 24%.In a letter seen by CNN Business, Air France-KLM CFO Erik Swelheim told managers that non-critical investments, such as refurbishment of buildings and hangars, will be delayed. Spend on advertising and IT will be reduced, he said. The impact on the airline's revenue from the coronavirus "will be very significant and will only partly be mitigated by lower costs and a lower fuel price," Swelheim said. "We will have to take immediate measures to safeguard our operating income, in order to protect our necessary investment program," he added. The company's share price is off more than 23% this week.Lufthansa said flight attendant training courses planned for April would be canceled. Participants already on courses will not be hired in the short term. The airline, which has grounded 13 aircraft due to a decline in demand, said it is considering expanding part-time work options. The stock was down 5% in Germany on Friday, extending losses this week to 21%.European economyThere are also signs that flights within Europe are being disrupted. British Airways said it is reducing the number of flights between London and Milan's Linate airport over the next two weeks due to falling demand. Milan is located in the northern region of Lombardy, where Italy has recorded most of its coronavirus cases.The airline will also reduce its daily service to Seoul to three to four times weekly starting on March 13, adding to existing reductions on other Asian routes and the ongoing suspension of flights to mainland China.Europe's largest low-cost carrier, Ryanair (RYAAY), which flies to more than 20 Italian destinations including Milan, said Thursday that all its flights are operating as normal.Airport operators are also feeling the pain. Fraport, which owns Frankfurt airport, said the virus outbreak is having a "major impact" on "all business areas," including flight operations, ground handling, cargo and retail. The international aviation hub is pausing non-essential hiring and offering employees voluntary unpaid leave or reduced working hours. Working from homeWhile travel restrictions are becoming commonplace, there is little sign yet of a widespread drive to encourage home working in Europe.Chevron's (CVX) employees in its London Canary Wharf office, where it employs 300 people, have been working from home since Tuesday, after an employee experiencing flu-like symptoms was tested for coronavirus. But big global banks such as HSBC (HBCYF) and Barclays (BCS), which have their head offices nearby, told CNN Business that staff are still coming in to the office.UniCredit has encouraged employees located in the towns "worst affected" to rely on remote working where possible.Nestlé said it has asked employees who have traveled to "affected countries," including Italy, France, Germany, Spain, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States, in the last two weeks to work from home for 14 days "where possible."By contrast, in an attempt to limit social contact and slow the spread of the virus, millions of employees in Asia have been working from home for weeks since the outbreak accelerated in China late last month. - Eoin McSweeney contributed reporting. 
-----------------------------------------
time: 2020-03-05T04:01:23Z
url: https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/04/business/flybe-collapse-2020/index.html
author: Michelle Toh, CNN Business
headline: Flybe collapses as the coronavirus crisis deals the final blow - CNN
description : UK airline Flybe has officially entered administration.
keywords : business, Flybe collapses as the coronavirus crisis deals the final blow - CNN
content: Flybe told customers that it has grounded all flights as it enters administration, adding that its business in the United Kingdom had "ceased trading with immediate effect.""If you are due to fly with Flybe, please DO NOT TRAVEL TO THE AIRPORT unless you have arranged an alternative flight with another airline," the company told customers in a statement Thursday. "Please note that Flybe is unfortunately not able to arrange alternative flights for passengers."The Exeter-based budget carrier was founded in 1979 and at one point was Europe's largest independent regional airline, carrying 8 million passengers a year and operating more than 200 routes.The airline had been struggling for a while. The UK government announced in January that it was talking to the company about its finances and exploring options for a rescue, adding that Flybe's management and shareholders were setting the airline "on a recovery path."But Flybe's financial challenges had been "compounded by the outbreak of coronavirus which in the last few days has resulted in a significant impact on demand," the airline said in a statement widely reported by UK media.The entire global airline industry has been tipped into crisis by the outbreak, which began in China and has now spread to every continent except Antarctica. Collapsing demand for travel has caused airlines to make savage cuts to their flight schedules, ground planes and ask staff to take unpaid leave to manage the loss of business. The International Air Transport Authority warned Thursday that airlines stand to lose $113 billion in sales if the coronavirus continues to spread around the world. Just two weeks ago, IATA had been expecting lost sales in the range of $30 billion.Rafael Schvartzman, the regional vice president for IATA, said the collapse of Flybe demonstrated the urgent need for governments to support airlines."This development is proof that urgent action is required across Europe to protect air connectivity during a period of almost unprecedented crisis," he said in a statement.A UK government spokesperson said in a statement that "Flybe's financial difficulties were longstanding and well documented and pre-date the outbreak of Covid-19," referring to the official name for the disease. The government said it is working with the industry to minimize disruption to Flybe routes, "including by looking urgently at how routes not already covered by other airlines can be re-established."Authorities are also asking other airlines to offer passengers reduced fares, and is requesting that train and bus companies accept Flybe tickets as payment."Very sad that @flybe has gone out of business after serving passengers for four decades," Grant Shapps, the British secretary of state for transport, tweeted Thursday. "Government staff will be on hand at UK airports ready to assist."Loganair, a Scottish airline, said it would take over 16 of Flybe's routes, with flights commencing in stages over the next four months.The UK Department for Transportation said it would help Flybe staff members look for new jobs "as soon as possible."  
